BACHELOR PARTY 
Mystique

USE PADDLE CONTROLLER

                  Foreplay

  The object of the game is to use your
paddle control to line up the Spanish Fly with
the flying bachelor, giving him a shot of
energy and causing him to rebound, and
"scoring" with one of the lovely young ladies
attending his party. When the game starts, the
bachelor has four lives. Every time he misses
the Spanish Fly he loses one life and a musical
theme is played. After each life is lost, you
must depress the button again. When all the
lives are lost the game is over. Small squares
on the stripe at the bottom of the screen show
how many lives are remaining in addition to
the one then in play. Note that when the
bachelor flies toward the women, his private
part (P.P.) is in an erect state. As he returns
toward the Spanish Fly, it is in a limp condition.
Also note that as the bachelor travels around,
The Flight of the Bumble Bee is played.

                  Scoring

  When the bachelor successfully "scores"
with a woman you score 5 points and the
woman disappears. As the bachelor "scores",
a fanfare of Charge is played.

                 Game Play

  Bachelor Party consists of two game
versions, each with a one- or two-player
option. With the power switch off, gently insert
your Mystique video game cartridge into
your Atari or Sears console in the same
manner as you would with any ordinary game
cartridge. Turning the switch "on" will activate
the "foreplay mode". This is very similar to the
"attract mode" seen on many arcade games.
You will hear Auld Lang Syne play. Once the
music stops playing you can start the game.
  Games number 1 and 3 are one-player
versions and 2 and 4 are two-player versions.
In games 1 and 2 there are two rows of 4
women in each row. Games 3 and 4 are more
difficult in that there are two rows of 8 women
in each row, and they slowly advance during
play. Use the "game select" switch on your
console to select your game choice. The
number of the game appears on a colored
stripe above the Mystique name, near the
bottom of the screen. Use the paddle
controller plugged into the left had socket of
your Atari console.
  Once you have selected the game, either
depress the "game reset" button on your
console, or the red "fire" button on the paddle
control. This will start the "play" mode. The
musical theme is then repeated. At the end of
the music press the "fire" button again and the
first bachelor will be released. Turning the
knob on the paddle control clockwise will
cause the Spanish Fly (the paddle on the left
side of the screen) to move down, turning it
counter-clockwise causes the Spanish Fly to
move up.

                Bonus Lives

  Once the bachelor "scores" with all the
women in both rows, you will be awarded a
bonus life and two new rows of women
appear. You can accumulate no more than 6
lives at any one time, in addition to the one in
play.

                  Rebound

  As the bachelor strikes the side walls, the
ladies, or the backwall, he will rebound in a
straight line at an angle similar to a beam of
light striking a mirror at an angle and then
being reflected.

                  Quickies

  When our bachelor strikes the back wall in
games 1 and 2 or the second row of women in
games 3 and 4, his energy level will greatly
increase and along with it the speed of the
games.

             Two Player Option

  When the two-player option is selected, the
first player (using the left paddle -- red score
stripe) plays until a life is lost. The second
player (right paddle -- green score stripe) then
plays until a life is lost. However, when it is the
first player's turn again, the turn begins with all
the ladies on the screen, making it more
difficult than the single player games.
  Turns continue to alternate until one player
has lost all their lives. Other player then
continues playing until all remaining lives are
lost. When this occurs, the game is over and
both players' final scores are displayed
simultaneously on the screen, meanwhile the
unit returns to the "Attract" of "foreplay" mode.

             Difficulty Levels

  With the difficulty switch in the "B" position
the Spanish Fly is slightly smaller and a little
more difficult to hit the bachelor with. In the
"A" position, the Spanish Fly is larger, making it
easier to hit the bachelor.
  A further difficulty level is achieved by
playing games 3 or 4. In these games, the
rows of women advance toward the Spanish
Fly. Once the second row of women reaches
the original position of the first row, the first row
of women disappears and a new second row
appears. If you are to score a bonus life, you
must score with all the women in both rows
before the new row appears.

                 After Play

  The world of electronic video games is a
most exciting concept. It uses computer
generated images to challenge the player's
imagination; to create a fantasy situation that
offers a challenge.
  Until Mystique, video games have been
considered by many to be "child's play"
(because they usually beat the adults). But
here's a game kids can't play (so you stand a
chance of winning).
  We at Mystique feel that it's time for video
games and their adult players to come out of
the closet, away from the kids, and deal with
ADULT fantasies. After all, grown-ups have
been known to be imaginative and
competitive, as well as have fantasies.
  We have designed our "Adult" games to be
whimsical, entertaining, challenging, naughty
and FUN. Our own team of design engineers
has developed a line of games that don't just
stop at "Adult", but push the Atari console to
the limit. You'll see graphics of a quality that
you probably have never seen before. You'll
hear music and sound effects where you've
come to expect only an occasional "bleep"
before. Nearly every bit of capability of the
Atari 2600 is used.
  It is our desire to provide you with not only
the finest in adult video games, but with a
level of quality -- play, graphics, effects and
humor -- rarely found in any video game --
adult or not. We want you to laugh, smile a lot,
have a challenge and enjoy! Any suggestions
for improvement are welcome. Compliments
are adored. However, we'd love to hear from
you either way.
