BANK HEIST
20th CENTURY FOX

[inside cover-page 1]

TO SET UP:
Set up your video computer system and left joystick controller as
instructed in your game system owner's manual.  Move the Color/B-W
lever to the correct setting.  Turn the power OFF.  Insert the game
cartridge and then turn the power ON.  Use the Game Select lever and
difficulty switches to choose a play level.  Press the Game Reset lever
or the joystick button to begin your life of crime.

THE OBJECTIVE:
Your goal is to rob as many Banks as possible before running out of
Getaway Cars.  Disabling Cop Cars with dynamite increases your score
and causes more banks to appear in the town.  Running into Cop Cars or
accidentally dynamiting your own car will abruptly halt your little joy
ride.

THE CONTROLS:
Tilt the joystick forward, backward, left and right to drive your
Getaway Car through the city streets.  To rob Banks, simply run over
them.  Press the button on the joystick to release a stick of dynamite
from the tailpipe of your car.

Screenshot:  Gas Tank (Upper left), Getaway Cars in Reserve (Upper
right), Score (Bottom).

CARS:
The number of spare Getaway Cars is shown in the upper right portion of
the screen.  You start the game with four spare cars, and lose one
every time you run out of gas, crash into a Cop Car, or blow yourself
up.  If you rob nine or more Banks in a town, a bonus Getaway Car will
be awarded when you go on to the next city.  The game will end if you
use up all of your spare cars.  

[page 2]

FUEL:
The gas tank at the top left of the screen shows the amount of fuel
remaining.  The higher the red level, the more gas you have left.  Fuel
is consumed by time and by using dynamite.  If you run out of gas, you
lose a Getaway Car.

The bar on the right side of the gas tank shows the level to which your
tank can be refilled WHEN YOU LEAVE TOWN.  If the pointer is white, the
amount of gas in the tank will be refilled to the height of the bar. 
If the pointer is red, the gas level in the tank will remain the same. 
Robbing nine or more banks in a town will enable you to refill the
entire tank.

Screen of Silver Dollar, South Dakota/ Screen of Flat Broke, Arkansas

ROBBING BANKS/USING DYNAMITE:
Drive through the city streets until you reach a Bank and then run over
the Bank to rob it.  After each robbery, one Cop Car will appear and
start to chase you.  There can be up to three Cop Cars in a town at one
time.  One Bank will appear for each Cop Car disabled.  To stop a Cop,
first let one of them get close behind you and then drop a stick of
dynamite out of your tail pipe.  (It may take a few tries to get your
drop time down just right.)

PASSAGEWAYS/LEAVING TOWN:
Three of the passageways located at the edges of the screen, are “wrap-
around” passageways.  For example, if you exit through the lower left
passageway, your car will reappear in the lower right passageway and
vice versa.  The UPPER RIGHT passageway leads to the next town.

It is impossible to go back once you have left a city, so get as much
money and potential gas as you can before leaving.  You may be forced
to leave town before hitting all of the Banks if you are running out of
gas.  Your Getaway Car will flash to indicate when your gas tank is low
so you can get out in time.

[page 3]

SCORING:
Money received for robbing Banks and disabling Cop Cars is shown for a
short time on the screen where the Bank or Cop Car was located.  The
total amount of money you have earned is displayed at the bottom of the
screen.  Bonus cash is awarded when you leave a town after robbing nine
or more Banks.

Bank Values:
First Bank =            $10.00          Sixth Bank =            $60.00
Second Bank =   $20.00          Seventh Bank =  $70.00
Third Bank =    $30.00          Eighth Bank =   $80.00
Fourth Bank =   $40.00          Ninth Bank =    $90.00
Fifth Bank =            $50.00

Cop Car Values:
One Cop Car in pursuit =        $10.00          Three Cop Cars in pursuit = $50.00
Tow Cop Cars in pursuit =       $30.00

Bonus Points for Level 1:
Bankersfield = $93.00           Flat Broke = $279.00
Silver Dollar = $186.00         Heistown = $372.00

Add $372.00 per level to these values for the other sevel levels.

Screen here:  Heistown, Illionois, with the following call-outs:
Upper left “Gas Left in Tank”
Middle (well, not really middle, but below Upper and above lower) left
“Warp-around passageway”
Lower left “Wrap-around passageway”
Upper right “Potential Gas Bar”
Directly across from the Middle left “To Next City”
Directly across from the lower left “Wrap-around passageway”

PLAY LEVELS/DIFFICULTY SWITCHES:
Each of the eight play levels contains four towns.  After leaving the
fourth town, you will automatically be advanced to the next level of
play.  As the levels get higher, the pursuit gets faster.  Theis causes
your Getaway Car to burn fuel at a faster rate, allowing you less time
to rob Banks.  Use the Game Select level to start a new game at a
different play level.

LEFT DIFFICULTY SWITCH A:  The cops are smart and will always find you.
LEFT DIFFICULTY SWITCH B:  The cops are not as smart and go in a more
set pattern.
RIGHT DIFFICULTY SWITCH A:  Banks appear in a random order.
RIGHT DIFFICULTY SWITCH B:  Banks appear in a set order.

[page 4]

HINTS FROM BILL ASPROMONTE: (hope he didn’t hurt himself with these
tips! :)
The wrap-around passageways are the best way to ditch cops.  Also, Cop
Cars are not allowed to make U-turns.  This means that you can follow
them about the town without risking a head-on collision.

QUICKEST CROOKS:
|Name           |Level          |Score|

A game by Bill Asporomonte
(C) 1983 Fox Video Games, Inc.
All rights reserved.
