BARNSTORMING
ACTIVISION

Pull on your goggles and check out your controls. You're about to embark on a daredevil flight
through the wild blue yonder. But before you take off, take a minute to read over these
instructions. You'll be glad you did. 

BARNSTORMING BASICS 

1.Hook up your video game system. Follow manufacturer's instructions. 
2.With power OFF, plug in game cartrige. 
3.Turn power ON. If no picture appears, check connection of your game system to TV, then
repeat steps 1-3. 
4.Plug in left Joystick Controller. (It's the only one you'll need.) When playing, hold the controller
wiht red button at upper left. 
5.Set both difficulty swithces to B to begin. 
6.Select game with game select switch: 

Game1: Hedge hopper (fly through 10 barns, fixed course) Game2: Crop Duster (Fly through 15
barns, fixed course) Game3: Stunt Pilot (Fly through 15 barns, fixed cures, different than game2)
Game4: Flying Ace (Fly through 25 barns, a new course each time you select Game4) 

7.THE OBJECT OF THE GAME is to fly through a set number of barns in the shortest possible
time (elapsed time indicated at top of screen). 

8.SCORING. Each time you make it through a barn, your barn count number (upper left corner of
screen) will decrease by one If you miss a barn, your barn count will remain the same and you will
have to fly further to reach an additional barn When your barn count reaches zero, the game is
ended. 

9.TO TAKE OFF, simply press the red button on your Joystick, and push the Joystick up to
climb. 

10.USING THE JOYSTICK. Once airborne, the red botton acts as your throttle: press it for
greater speed, release it to slow down. To increase your altitude, push the Joystick up, and, to
descend, pull the joystick down. 

11.DIFFICULTY SWITCHES. The LEFT difficulty switch in teh A position will lower the
clearance hiehgts of the barns, the B position is normal. The RIGHT difficulty switch in the A
position will add more geese, the B position is normal. 

Note to owners of Sears Tele-Game (TM) Video Arcade (R): Difficulty is called skill left (or
right); A is expert and B is novice. 

GETTING THE FEEL OF BARNSTORMING (TM) BY ACTIVISION (TM) 

Just as in flying a real biplane,you'll need to get the "feel" of the controls. The better you get at
adjusting your throttle and handling your joystick, the better your chances to become a "Flying
Ace." 

You needn't worry about stalling out in midair. Your throttle is set to maintain a minimum speed
even when you release the red button. THe game is mastered by looking ahead and adjusting th
controls to make the best speed, fly through every barn and over every windmill, and avoid those
pesky geese. Whenever you push the throttle, watch out for geese. 

The best time is achieved by covering the course with the fewest possible corrections to your
altitiude, so precious seconds can be shaved by flying just above the windmills and just below the
openings of the barns. 

If you should misjudge and fly OVER a barn, your barn count will remain unchanged, and the
course will be extended until you can make up the missed barns and fly through the required
number. 

Avoiding crashes with barn roofs, barn interiors, weather vanes, windmills and geese will realy
save time. Better to slow down a little and avoid a crash, than to lose time picking up speed from a
dead stop. 

JOIN THE ACTIVISION (TM) FLYING ACES 

If you beat a time of 33.3 seconds on game 1, 51.0 seconds on game 2, or 54.0 seconds on game
3, you can join our Activision Flying Aces. Just send us a picture of oyur television screen, along
with your name and address, and we will enroll you in this prestigious organization. 

HOW TO BECOME AN "ACE" AT BARNSTORMING (TM) BY ACTIVISION (TM) 

Tips from Steve Cartwright, designer of Barnstorming. 

Steve is the newwest member of the Activision design team. He was dicovered by David Crane. 

"There are two stages involved in mastering this game. 

"After playing this game a few times, you'll begin to learn the course. By knowing what is coming
up ahead, you can keep your biplane at full speed. 

"But, being able to fly through the barns and over the windmills is only the beginning. The real
secret is in carefully navigating through the flocks of geese. With practice, it *is* possible to fly the
course at full speed with no collisions. 

"It has really been a great challenge designing my first game for Activision, and I'd particularly like
to thank David Crane for his help in 'getting me off the ground.'" 

Steve Cartwright 

P.S. Drop me a line. I'd love to hear about your daredevil exploits! 

Look for more Activision video games wherever you buy video game cartriges. Drop us a note,
and we'll gladly add your name to our mailing list and keep you posted on new Activision game
cartriges as they become available. 
