	R E V E N G E
	of the
	Beefsteak Tomatoes

	20th Century Fox
	Games of the Century
	Game Instructions

	Revenge of the Beefsteak Tomatoes

TO SET UP:
Set up your video computer system and left joystick controller as instructed
in your game system owner's manual.  Move the Color/B-W Lever to the correct
setting.  Turn the power OFF.  Insert the Revenge of the Beefsteak Tomatoes
game cartridge and then turn the power ON.  Use the Game Select Lever and
Difficulty Switches to choose a play level.  Press the Game REset Lever and
prepare for Tomato warfare!

[Screen Shot of Level 2: Score at top center, Brick, your Tomato Sprayer, 3
levels of colored Wall Guides, Beefsteak Tomato, annd Tomato Plants growing
up from the bottom of the screen.]

THE CONTROLS:
Tilt the joystick in any direction to maneuver your all-purpose Tomato
Sprayer around the screen.  The joystick button is used to capture and
release Bricks, and also to destroy Tomatoes and Tomato Plants.

THE OBJECTIVE:
Your objective is to trap the Tomato Plants at the bottom of the screen by
building three walls above them.  At the same time you must avoid or shoot
down all flying Tomatoes, dodge Tomato Bombs and stop the Brick-Eaters.

SCREEN DISPLAY:
Your score is displayed at the top of the screen.  In the bottom left-hand
corner, red bars show the number of Tomato Sprayers remaining.  (NOTE: If
the left Difficulty Switch is in the B position, there will always be three
bars remaining.)

BUILDING WALLS:
Your job is to build three walls above the Tomato Plants.  The walls are
built by capturing colored Bricks and then dropping them into place across
the lower half of the screen.  To capture a Brick, you must shoot it ONCE
with your all-purpose Tomato Sprayer as the Brick moves across the top of
the screen.  A "beep" will sound when you hit a Brick.  If you succeed in
capturing it, your Sprayer will turn the color of that Brick.  The Brick may
now be placed in a wall by aiming the Tomato Sprayer toward the desired
position in the wall and then pressing the joystick fire button ONCE.  Only
green Bricks may be placed in the bottom wall, only pink Bricks in the
middle wall and only gold Bricks in the top wall.  The permanent Bricks on
either side of the screen are guides to show you where to line up your
colored Bricks.  You can aim from underneath or from on top of the wall, but
you cannot place a brick by firing horizontally.  Also, you cannot drop a
Brick through an existing wall.  You must guide the Tomato Sprayer through
openings in the upper walls to reach the empty spots below.

Careful now, you only have one chance to place a captured Brick.  If you
miss the wall, you lose the Brick.  No wall can be completed if one of the
walls beneath it is incomplete.

[Screen shot of Level 3: Cherry Tomato, Tomato Bombs, and Sprayer with
Captured Pink Brick.]

TOMATOES:
You must avoid the bombs from the Tomato Plants at the bottom of the screen
and from the flying Cherry Tomatoes at the top.  Colliding with either a
Beefsteak Tomato, a bomb from a Cherry Tomato or a Tomato Plant will result
in the loss of one Tomato Sprayer.

In play levels 4 , 6 and 8, brick-eating Tomato Plants will occasionally
grow on the walls.  The Tomato Bombs will turn green if a "Brick-Eater" is
growing somewhere.  If allowed to reach its full height, both it and the
Brick under it will disappear.  Shooting a Brick-Eater or completing any
wall will stop the Plant from eating the Brick.  If you run into a
Brick-Eater, you will lose one Sprayer.

SCORING:
Points are awarded for hitting Tomatoes, Brick-Eaters and Tomato Plants,
capturing and placing Bricks, and completing walls.

Roving Beefsteak Tomato       =    5
Killer Cherry Tomato          =   50
Brick-Eater                   =    5
Capturing a Brick             =   10
Placing a Brick in Wall       =   20
Completing first Wall         = 1000
Completing second Wall        = 2000
Completing third Wall         = 3000

[Screen shot of Level 8: Sprayer with Captured Gold Brick, Brick-Eater, Wide
Tomato Bomb and 1 Sprayer in Reserve.]

PLAY LEVELS / DIFFICULTY SWITCHES
Revenge of the Beefsteak Tomatoes will automatically begin on Level 6.  You
can choose a different play level by pressing the Game Select Lever before
starting the game.  The current level of play will be displayed at the top
of the screen.  After you complete a game by building all three walls, you
will be challenged with another round of Tomato warfare in that same play level.

LEVEL 1 = Tomato Plants fire
LEVEL 2 = Tomato Plants fire and Beefsteak Tomatoes roam
        across the screen
LEVEL 3 = Same as Level 2, plus Cherry Tomatoes
LEVEL 4 = Same as Level 3, plus Brick-Eaters
LEVEL 5 = Same as Level 3, but increasingly difficult
        with each round.
LEVEL 6 = Same as Level 4, but increasingly difficult
          with each round.
LEVEL 7 = Same as Level 5, but Tomato Bombs are wider
LEVEL 8 = Same as Level 6, but Tomato Bombs are wider

LEFT DIFFICULTY SWITCH A = Four Sprayers per game
LEFT DIFFICULTY SWITCH B = Unlimited number of Sprayers
        per game
RIGHT DIFFICULTY SWITCH A = Speed of Tomatoes and Tomato
					   Bombs is fast
RIGHT DIFFICULTY SWITCH B = Speed of Tomatoes and Tomato
                            Bombs is slow


HINTS FROM JOHN RUSSELL...
Brick-Eathers always grow on the wall containing the most Bricks.  If there
are two walls which have the same number of Bricks, the Brick-Eater will
grown on the upper wall.

Don't stay at the top of the game screen as it is easier to capture Bricks
when you are further away from them.  Remember, it only takes ONE shot from
the Tomato Sprayer to capture a Brick.  The NEXT shot fired will release it.
Although you must fire single shots to capture and release Bricks, you'll
have better luck blasting Tomatoes with the fire button held down.  Practice
switching from one method to the other.


	TOMATO PASTERS
Name					Level			Score


