BUGS

EXTERMINATION INSTRUCTIONS

You have been sent to investigate a life form that has been
detected on a long-dead planet. Passing through the deadly Cosmic
Tunnel, you land on the barren planet's surface to find an
underground world ruled by a race of intelligent Super-Bugs!
Countless numbers of these space age creepy-crawlies begin to
emerge from massive subterranean colonies-along with the Phylax,
genetically engineered Super-Drones that can penetrate any
surface....

HOW TO COMBAT INFESTATION

1.   Hook up your video game system according to the
     manufacturer's instructions.

2.   With game console power OFF, firmly plug in your BUGS game
     cartridge.

3.   Turn the game console power ON. If no picture appears,
     check to make sure your game unit is hooked up correctly to
     your TV, then try steps 1-3 again.

4.   For the best contrast, turn the "Brightness" control switch
     on your TV to a low setting.

5.   Plug your paddle controllers into the left receptacle of
     your game console. For two players, use both paddle
     controllers. Player 1 uses the left controller, and Player
     2 uses the right controller. Hold the paddle controller
     with the red Fire Button to your upper left.

6.   Select the game variation you wish to play-one or two
     players. For one player, the number three will appear in
     the upper left hand corner of your screen. For two players,
     the number three will also appear as the first digit in the
     upper right hand score block (this number tells you the
     number of "hits" your weapon or ship can take before the
     game is over).
7.   Select your level of difficulty by positioning the
     "Difficulty" switch at either Level  (for beginners) or
     Level B (for more advanced players). You can match the
     skill levels of two players by having one play at Level A
     and the other play at Level B.

8.   To start the game, press the red Fire Button on your paddle
     controller. (For two players, Player 2 must press his fire
     button to start his turn.)

9.   Using your controller, move your weapon directly underneath
     the Super-Bugs as they emerge from their nests.

10.  If your weapon is destroyed by a Phylax, or if the Bugs
     leave their nests and damage your ship, press your Fire
     Button to initiate repairs and continue the game. When a
     player's weapon or ship has been damaged three times, the
     game is over.

11.  To start a new game, press the "Game Reset" switch on your
     game unit console, then press your red Fire Button.

SCORING

Using your paddle controller, position your Ultrasonic Weapon
(the "aiming cursor" seen on your screen) directly below the
emerging Bugs. You will see Ultrasonic Energy Packets leaving
your ship's firing bays and moving toward the aiming cursor to
destroy the Bug above. You must destroy the Bugs before they
completely leave their nests or they will damage your ship.

While you are destroying Bugs, you must also watch for the
Phylax-sent by the Super-Bugs to penetrate your ship's hull and
destroy your weapon. As long as the Phylax is green he is outside
your ship and harmless. Your weapon is also harmless to him. But
when a Phylax changes colour to yellow (a warning) and then red,
he has entered your ship. You must try to destroy him, by luring
him into your weapon's line of fire, before he makes contact with
your weapon.

Here's how to rack up points:
*    Each bug destroyed scores one point.
*    Destroying a Phylax scores five points.
*    After you score thirty points you automatically advance to
     a new skill level (indicated by a new Cosmic Barrier),
     scoring a bonus of eight additional points.

ADDITIONAL EXTERMINATION STRATEGIES

1.   Your Ultrasonic Energy Packets will move towards your
     aiming cursor. Once you have fired, the Packets will
     continue in the same direction even if you move your aiming
     cursor. To destroy a Phylax, position your aiming cursor so
     that your Energy Packet will pass through the Phylax's
     path, then quickly move your weapon out of the line of
     fire.

2.   After you have advanced to a new skill level, you may find
     more than one Phylax has oozed through your craft's hull.
     This means double trouble-but double challenge, too. Use
     the tricky move described above on both of them.

3.   Of you succeed in destroying all of the bugs leaving their
     nests, others will emerge to take their place-but they'll
     be moving faster. By keeping your Fire Button depressed as
     you move your weapon back and forth, you have a better
     chance of putting these Super-Bugs back in their place.

MISSION BASICS

You must destroy the swarms of invading bugs, out to immobilize
your space craft, before they completely leave their nests. At
the same time, you must be on constant guard against the Phylax
oozing through the hull of your craft and bent on destroying your
only weapon.

-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
