Spectravideo
Video Game Cartridge

BUMPER BASH

Single Player Only

for the Atari and Sears 
Video Game System
Instruction Manual



THE GAME

Great news for pinball fans! Now you may possess
your own pinball machine and enjoy your game
leisurely at any time! Although you might lose
the thrill of cheating the machine by shaking it, you can
have a fair play. It is a genuine test of your response,
your eyesight, and your judgement through
manipulating a set of flippers.

CONTENTS			PAGE

- GETTING STARTED		2

- PLAYING THE GAME

- SCORING			4


THE GAME

Great news for pinball fans! Now you may possess
your own pinball machine and enjoy your game
leisurely at any time! Although you might lose
the thrill of cheating the machine by shaking it, you can
have a fair play. It is a genuine test of your response,
your eyesight, and your judgement through
manipulating a set of flippers.

GETTING STARTED

1. Hook up game console.
2. Plug a set of Game Paddles into the left controller jack.
3. Turn the power off and insert the cartridge into the slot.
4. turn the power on. Use the Reset switch or either paddle
button to start/restart the game.

PLAYING THE GAME

1. Familiarize yourself with your pinball machine first.
2. Adjust the plunger position by pressing either paddle button.
3. Fire the ball by pressing both buttons simultaneously
4. Once a ball is launched, these buttons become your vital
weapons: the flipper controls.

Just like the pinball game, you are given 5 balls per
game. Keep this in the playfield. Avoid the side drains
as well as the gap between 2 flippers. Of course, you
have got to score marks. Here are more useful tips:

- Rollovers
As a ball passes through a rollover, an alphabet will
be displayed right on the spot. If you get three
alphabets, then 2 ball kickers will be generated, and
your ball will be saved from draing down the side.
If these alphabets are lit a second time with same ball,
you win an extra ball.

- Drop Targets
If you hit all three top drop targets, the score of
the bumper pair increases. The second time, the
score of the top bumper is increased. The third
time, bonus will be granted once the rollover buttons 
are hit. After this, completing the targets 
spots the left rollover alphabet. Targets are reset
on each new ball with any feature gained remains
till game is over.
Completing the bottom targets advances the bonus
multiplier. Once the multiplier reaches 5, completing 
the targets spots the right rollover alphabet. The bonus
value and targets reset after each ball.

-Spinner
The spinner rotates the target value from 1 to 9.
Hitting the rail bumpers causes the flashing switch
between the sets of targets. falshing targets score a 
bonus point.


<screen shot with numbered items>

1. Rollover Button
2. Rollover
3. Game Score
4. Top Bumper
5. Bumper Pair
6. Bottom Drop Targets
7. Rail Bumper
8. Flipper
9. Bonus
10. Multiplier
11. Ball Kikcers
12. Plunger with a pinball sitting on top
13. Rollover Button
14. Top Drop Targets
15. Spinner


Once You Bash		Then You Score
-------------------		--------------------
Top Rollover		100
Rollover Button		10
Top Bumper		50 or 500 when flashing
Bumper Pair		10 or 100 when flashing
Spinner			10
Drop Target		100 x Drop Target Value
Rail Bumper		5

Bonus

The following advances the bonus value:

- top rollovers
- button rollovers after the top targets have been
completed 3 times
- flashing drop targets

Each bonus point worths 1,000 points in your
final game score.
