M Network

Burgertime

for your Atari 2600 Game System

Instructions

(for 1 or 2 players)

Build beautiful burgers by dropping buns and patties onto a
plate. Dodge horrible hot dogs. Defy brawling bread sticks.
Pepper enormous eggs and charging cheese. Score points by
squashing those nasties with a falling bun. Build all the
burgers and you move on to the next maze. Get too close to
a nasty, though, and it's back to Burger School for you in'
short order.

The Game

You move your chef around the maze in a frantic attempt to
build hamburgers before the nasties converge on you. Move 
across the top of the burger ingredients and they will drop a
level. Work all the ingredients to the bottom and you'll move
on to the next maze. Score points by dropping an ingredient,
squashing nasties, or giving them a ride down on a falling
ingredient. Dust a nasty with some pepper and he'll stop in 
his tracks. If a nasty touches him, your chef is cooked. So 
watch out! Play alone or challenge a friend. Highest score wins.

Controllers

Use your left joystick controller 
to control the direction of your
chef. Be sure your controller cable
is securely plugged into the back of 
your game console. Hold the controller so
the red pepper (FIRE) button is to your
upper left. *Note: Right hand controller is
not used in this game.

Difficulty Switches

Level of Difficulty does not change. The switch on the
right (near the right controller cable) determines the
number of players. Switch position A is for two players.
Switch position B is for a one player game. In switch 
Position A, the two players take turns using the left 
controller. When one player loses his chef, the other player 
takes over the controller.

The switch on the left may be used to freeze the action 
by sliding it to position A. Position B returns the game
to the action from the point at which you stopped it.

Roll up your sleeves..put on your hat..grab some pepper...
and fire up your grill.
 

Action!

To start the game, press reset switch. Be ready
because the game starts right away.

The Chef. You control the chef, Peter Pepper.
Move him up ladders and across planks 
using the joystick. Move your chef completely
across a bun or other ingredients and it drops 
one level. You rack up 50 points.

You start with 5 chefs, but only one can be used
at a time. For every 10,000 points scored,
you get an extra chef.

Nasties and Mazes: Hot Dogs, eggs, bread sticks, and
cheese chase your chef wherever he goes in the maze.
If they catch him, the round is over. All of the nasties
get quicker as you go along.

There are five mazes contructed of ladders planks.
When you successfully build all the hamburgers 
in one maze, you move on to the next maze. When 
all five mazes have been completed, you start over
again with the first maze.

For more Points: Drop the ingredients on top of the nasties.
You will get 200 points for each hot dog or bread stick
that you squash. A squashed egg or hunk of chesse is
worth 100 points.

For even more points, tempt the nasties out onto a bun
and then drop it by stepping off. The bun will drop two
levels. You score 500 points for each nasty you drop. After 
a few seconds, dropped or squashed nasties return
from the side of the screen.

And a pinch of pepper. Pepper may be used to temporarily stun nasties 
if you are trapped. This tactic allows you to move out of corners
unharmed. You can only throw pepper in front of you. Make
sure the chef is facing the nasty you want to pepper by using
the joytsick first.

You start with 5 pinches of pepper which are displayed under
and to the left of the score. (See diagram.) You can earn extra
pinches of pepper by gobbling French fries, ice cream, or coffee.
You get 500 points and a pinch of pepper for each item gobbled.

The chef will always stop while he throws pepper. You
can move him as soon as he is finished peppering the nasty.

Score display: The running score is tallied in the top center 
portion og the screen. But, anytime you squash a nasty
or give one a ride down, the point value will be displayed 
briefly instead of the score.

For two player games, only the score of the player currently
controlling the chief is displayed. At the end of the game
the display alternates showing each score and designates
whether it belongs to player #1 (pink) or player #2 (blue)

The maximum score for M Network's Burgetime is 999,950.
If you can get close, you are a certified burger-maniac.

Scoring


Score			Action
-------------------------------
50 Points		Knocking a hamburger part from a horizontal plank

100 Points		Squashing an egg or chesse with a falling hamburger part

200 Points		Squashing a hot dog or bread stick with a falling hamburger part

500 Points		For each nasty who takes a ride on a falling hamburger part

500 Points		Gobbling one of the "pinch of pepper" prizes 
			(Ice Cream, French Fries, or Coffee)


Winning Tips

-Save Pepper for the for the times you need it most. Don't waste it on
nasties that are easily avoided.

-Try to get the highest point value for each hamburger part that you
drop. Try qsquashing a nasty! Better yet give him a fast ride down
on a falling bun.

- Remember, your chef stops while he peppers a nasty.
Don't get blind sided by a marauding bread stick while
you're busy peppering a hot dog.

-Keep away from the corners after squashing a nasty or
giving him a ride. The same nasty could return in that
corner and could run right smack into your chef.





