--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 CANYON BOMBER game program instructions    	Model CX-2607 (c)1979 ATARI,INC
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CANYON BOMBER
	Use your Standard Paddle Controllers with this ATARI Game Program.  Be
	sure the Controller cable is firmly plugged into the jack at the rear 
	of your ATARI Video Computer System.

	For one and two player games, plug the Paddle Controllers into the LEFT
	CONTROLLER jack.

	For three and four player games, you will need an additional set of
	Paddle Controllers.

	Note: Always turn the console power switch OFF when inserting or
	removing an ATARI Game Program.  This will protect the electronic 
	components and prolong the life of your ATARI Video Computer System.

USING THE CONTROLLER
	For Canyon Bomber games, press the red button on the Paddle Controller
	to drop your bombs from the plan into the canyon.  The knob on the 
	Controller is inoperable during Canyon Bomber games.

	For Sea Bomber games, turn the knob on the Controller to move the
	dashed depth indicator up and down the playfield.  This sets the depth
	at which the charge explodes.  Press the red button on the Controller
	to release the bomb.

TO BEGIN PLAY
	To choose the game you wish to play depress the Game Select switch. 
	The number for each game is displayed in the upper left corner of the
	screen.

	To start a game depress the Game Reset switch.

HANDICAP (Difficulty Switch)
	When the Difficulty Switch is in position "a" you must wait until a
	bomb runs its course before firing again.  Slide the switch to position
	"b" and suddenly you are allowed to recover and refire your bomb by
	pressing the red fire button.  This enables you to reshoot a bad shot,
	or to fire at a different target, if the original target is hit by your
	opponent.  There is no limit to the number of times you can recover and
	refire a bomb while your plane in making one run across the screen.

	Also, in the "b" position, the computer plays on a more skillful level,
	and therefore will be more difficult to beat.

CANYON BOMBER SCORING
	In one-player Canyon Bomber games you compete against the computer for
	a higher score.  A miss is recorded each time you fail to hit a target
	in the canyon.  A miss is also recorded if your plan travels across the
	canyon without dropping a bomb.

	There are eight bars of bricks which extend acroos the canyon.  Each
	brick in the first two bars is worth one point each.  The bricks in the
	third and fourth bars are worth two points each.  In the fifth and
	sixth bars the bricks are worth three points each, and the bricks in
	the last or bottom two bars are worth four points each.

	In one-player games, play continues until:
	  * Six misses are recorded against you, or -
	  * You or the computer score 1000 points in a game with unlimited
	    bombs.

	In two-player Canyon Bomber games, play continues until:
	  * Both players miss six times in games with limited bombs.
	  * One player scores 1000 points in games with unlimited bombs.

	If all of the bricks in the canyon are eliminated, a new canyon
	appears on the screen and play continues.

SEA BOMBER SCORING
	In both Sea Bomber games play ends when you, another player, or the
	computer score 1000 points.  There are five levels at which you score
	points when blowing up ships.  The lower the ship on the screen, the
	more points you score.  Point values for the five levels are 20, 30,
	40, 50, and 60 points.

	IN ALL GAMES IN THE GAME PROGRAM, THE OBJECT IS TO SCORE 1000 POINTS,
	OR TO HAVE THE HIGHEST SCORE WHEN THE GAME ENDS. (AFTER SIX MISSES ARE
	RECORDED.)

CANYON BOMBER GAMES
	GAME 1
	Canyon Bomber (One-Player)

	Test your skill against the computer.  It's not an easy task.  You've
	got six misses in which to match wits eith the computer for a higher 
	score.  Each time the bricks in the canyon are hit, the remaining
	bricks "fall" to a lower level (rather than remaining stationary in
	their original position).  Bricks that fall to a lower level are worth
	the points designated for that level.
	Keep an eye on the solid bar beneath your score on the upper right side
	of the screen.  It is a "miss indicator" and gradually decreases in
	length each time you miss until six misses are recorded and the game 
	ends.  The bar is also color-coordinated with your planes and your
	score.
	Set your sights for 1000 points.  Although the game will not end if you
	reach the 1000 point mark, it's an excellent goal to set for yourself
	since it will be very difficult to obtain.

	GAME 2
	Canyon Bomber (Two-Player)

	This game differs from Game 1 only in that you are competing against
	another player rather than the computer.  Play ends when six misses are
	recorded against both players.  the player with the highest score wins. 
	Don't forget to keep an eye on your opponent's "miss indicator" as well
	as your own.  Bombs away!

	GAME 3
	Canyon Bomber (One-Player)

	This one's the same as Game 1 with one exception.  Rather than falling
	to a lower level, the bricks in the canyon stay "suspended" in their
	original position when the surrounding bricks are hit.

	GAME 4
	Canyon Bomber (Two-Player)

	You compete with another player the same as in Game 2.  This time
	however, the brick remain suspended instead of falling to a lower
	level.

	GAME 5
	Canyon Bomber (Two-Player)

	Get set for a test of your endurance and concentration.  The first
	player to score 1000 points wins.  No time limit and no limit to the
	number of bombs or misses.  Falling, rather than suspended bricks are
	programed into this game.

	No "miss indicator" will appear on the screen in games with unlimited
	bombs.

	GAME 6
	Canyon Bomber (Two-Player)
	
	This game program is identical to Game 5, except that the bricks stay
	suspended.

SEA BOMBER GAMES
	GAME 7
	Sea Bomber (One-Player)

	You're playing against the computer.  Set the level, release the bomb,
	and boom, you're ready for action.  Sounds easy, but the computer's a
	real steady competitor.  If you score 1000 points before the computer 
	does, you're a winner!

	GAME 8
	Sea Bomber (Two-Player)

	This time you're competing against another player in a race to the 1000
	point mark.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
