FOR THE ATARI 2600 AND ALL COMPATIBLE SYSTEMS

CONGO BONGO
OFFICIAL ARCADE VERSION

SEGA
VIDEO GAME CARTRIDGE


You're a hunter on a jungle safari.  The jungle is full of creatures
determined to give you a run for your life but none of them can match
the mischief of CONGO BONGO, the jungle gorilla.

On the first screen you'll have to climb Jungle Mountain to get the
gorilla.  Climb the cliffs and leap across the chasm.  Don't get a
monkey on your back or you won't get anywhere.  Watch out for the
coconuts CONGO will throw your way.  They're deadly!

The second screen takes you to the Great Jungle River in your search
for CONGO BONGO.  You'll have to cross the river by hopping on hippos,
floating lily pads and man-eating fish.  Once you cross you'll have to
deal with charging rhinos and they're no fun.  One slip and it's safari
heaven!


USING YOUR CONTROLS

1. Insert the game cartridge with power off.
2. When you turn power on you will hear the opening theme, and see the
   copyright notice.
3. Use GAME SELECT to play with one or two players.  Players take turns.
   Player 1 uses the left joystick and Player 2 uses the right joystick.
4. Press GAME RESET or joystick button to start the game.
5. Use the joystick to move and climb the hunter.  The hunter jumps when you
   press the fire button.
6. Skill switches select play options:
   LEFT - Selects numbers of lives.
          B/Novice: select five lives.
          A/Expert: select three lives.
   RIGHT - Select speed of the hunter.
           B/Novice: slow speed (easier to control)
           A/Expert: fast speed


HOW TO PLAY

SCREEN 1 - JUNGLE MOUNTAIN

Here you must climb up the mountain without falling off, while avoiding
the killer coconuts CONGO will throw your way.

In play levels 1-3 there is a safe path area close to the wall but it
gets smaller as play levels increase.

Also the coconuts will follow you more closely as play levels
increase.  After you cross the bridge, carefully jump the ledge.  Don't
stay on the ledge too long or it caves in taking one of your three
lives with it.

Next you come to Monkey Plateau.  Up here you'll be bothered by two
pesky chimps.  If they hop on your back they'll slow you down to a
crawl.  Jump your hunter twice to get the chimps off your back.  As play
levels increase the monkeys become more annoying.

After you cross the river climb the last two steps to CONGO'S perch,
and run up to the light green of Congo's turf.  Your success is
rewarded with a quick trip to the next jungle encounter ... The Great
Jungle River.

SCREEN 2 - THE GREAT JUNGLE RIVER

Here the hunter must jump across the river on lily pads, hippos to the
safe island and the ferocious fish.  Avoid the charging Rhinos to get
to CONGO on the other side.

Player must first jump to the lily pads and/or the hippos to get to the
safe islands.

The lily pads move in a simple pattern in play levels 1-4, but get
harder to jump on in higher play levels.  Be sure to land on the lily
center, as they are floating and sinking and you might fall off the
edge.

Hippos and fish only allow the hunter to stand on them for a limited
time before tossing you into the water.  The time limit gets shorter as
play level increases.  Fish change color just before snapping.

Be careful if you land on the fish's tail ... they can flip you into the
water and you lose one life.

Once safely on the other side, watch out for raging RHINOS.  Be careful
to avoid them as you go across.

Keep walking across the far side and get to CONGO BONGO.

SCREEN 3 - THE HUNTER GETS EVEN

Here you will enjoy lighting CONGO with play fire.  But don't worry -
CONGO can take the heat and will return to harrass you in Screen 1 at
the next play level.


SCORING

You begin each screen of play level #1 with 5000 bonus points.  The
number of bonus points steadily decreases by 100 points until you reach
zero and have run out of time.  As you advance play levels the
beginning number of bonus points is higher:

	PLAY LEVEL 2 ............. 6000 points
	PLAY LEVEL 3 ............. 7000 points
	PLAY LEVEL 4 ............. 8000 points
	PLAY LEVEL 5 or more ..... 9000 points
        EACH STEP TAKEN ..........   10 points
        JUMPING ACROSS THE CHASM .  500 points
        When you earn 10,000 points you receive an additional life.
        You will play that life immediately after your current life
        is over.


PLAY HINTS

1. At the beginning of the first screen, there are some safe spots on the far
   left where you can avoid coconuts.

2. To cross the bridge, notice that the coconuts come in waves.

3. On Monkey Plateau, there are a few safe spots near the river's edge.

4. On screen number one you can safely jump over the river any place along its
   bank.  The further away from the white water edge the safer it is to jump.

5. On screen number two jump very carefully from place to place.

6. HAVE FUN!


-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
