ATARI 2600 TM Game Manual

DOUBLE DUNK


     You've spent the day playing some friendly two-on-two
basketball. You and our buddy are psyched. You've aced the last
three games, and the other guys are getting desperate.

     Your inside man dribbles deftly toward the basket. But their
man moves in quickly. If he gets the ball, you may get bounced!

     Your man passes. You get the ball and line up your shot. The
last few seconds of the game tick away. Sink this shot quick and
the game is yours!


Getting Started

1.   With your television switched on, insert the Double Dunk
     cartridge into your Atari 2600 (or 7800) as explained in
     your Owner's Manual.

     Note: If you have an Atari 2600, make sure the COLOR/BW
     switch is set to COLOR.

2.   Plug a controller into the left controller port for one
     player; plug a second controller into the right controller
     port for two players.

3.   Turn on your console. The Double Dunk title screen appears.
     Press [Select] to display the game options screen. Move the
     controller handle up or down to select the seven options.
     Then, move the controller handle left or right to change
     (yes or no, 1 or 2 players, and so on) that game option.
     (See the Game Optlons chart.)


Game Options

One or two players       Play against the computer or an
                         opponent. 
                         Select a l-player or 2-player game.

Game length              The game lasts a set amount of time (2,
                         5,10, or 15 minutes) or until one of
                         the teams reaches a certain score (10,
                         24, 36, or 48 points). Select the time
                         or score you want to use.             

3-point shots            Award 3 points for shots made from the
                         area outside the curved line. Select
                         either yes or no.        

10-second clock          If the offensive team does not shoot
                         within 10 seconds, the other team gets
                         the ball. Select either yes or no.    

3-second lane violation  If an offensive player stays in the
                         lane longer than 3 seconds at a time,
                         the other team gets the ball. Select
                         either yes or no.

Foul Detection           Penalize players for fouls. Select
                         either yes or no.                     

Team color selection     Select from six team colors. A C
                         (computer), 1 (first player), or 2
                         (second player) appears under a team's
                         selected color. To select a teams
                         color, move the controller right or
                         left to identify a color. Press
                         [Select]. Choose a different color for
                         each player or the computer.


4.   Press [Reset] or the left controller fire button to begin
     the game.

5.   During play, press [Select] to return to the options
     screen. Press [Reset] to restart the game.


Playing the Game

     Two teams, with two players (Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside) on
each team, compete in this basketball game. You control your
players with the controller. If your team has the ball, your
controller moves the player who has the ball. If the other team
has the ball, your controller moves your player who is guarding
the man with the ball (the player with his hands raised).

     The two players of each team have different playing skills.
Mr. Inside (the bigger player) is great at rebounding and
blocking shots, can dunk his shots easier, and sets picks for Mr.
Outside. Mr. Outside (the smaller player) is adept at stealing
the ball and is great at making long shots.

     One of the most effective plays is the pick play. The
purpose of a pick play is to get both defensive players hung up
on the offensive Mr. Inside, allowing the offensive Mr. Outside
to get an open shot. The defensive team can anticipate a pick
play by selecting the lower left or lower right position on the
controller during play selection. This allows the defensive Mr.
Inside to pick up coverage on the offensive Mr. Outside because
the defensive Mr. Outside is hung up on the offensive Mr. Inside.

     Choose your offensive or defensive play before the ball is
put in motion. After a score or a turnover, select your offensive
or defensive play. (You don't get to select a play after a
defensive foul, rebound, or a steal.) OFF and DEF flash at the
bottom of the screen until you choose your offensive or defensive
play. To select your play, move the controller into the
appropriate position and press the fire button.

     Once the ball is in play, use the controller to move your
players. When your team is on the offense, press the controller
fire button once to start the next part of your selected play.
If you pull the controller handle back and press the fire button
while the ball is in play, the player with the ball will ignore
the play and start a jump shot. When the player jumps, press the
fire button a second time and the player shoots the ball.

     If a player is very close to the basket when he shoots, he
will dunk the ball. After an opponent misses a shot and you get
the rebound, you must clear the ball by moving your player until
both feet are behind the 3-point line before you can shoot for
a basket.

     If your team is on defense, you can either attempt to steal
the ball or jump to block a shot. To attempt a steal, press the
fire button while your defensive player is close to the ball
carrier. Make sure the ball carrier is dribbling when the attempt
is made.

     To block a shot, wait until the ball carrier jumps for the
shot. Time your own jump to most effectively block the shot.


The Game Screen

     The score appears at the top of the screen, along with the
number of points needed to win the game (or the game clock) and
the 10-second shot clock.


Strategy

     Keep your opponent off guard by varying your selection of
plays.

     If the defense has your play covered, remember that you can
make the player with the ball shoot at any time.

     Shoot at the basket when your player is jumping up. Don't
shoot as your player is coming down from a jump. If you wait to
shoot, chances are you won't make the basket.

     Be careful to stay inbounds when rebounding.

     Time your blocks for successful interceptions.

     When rebounding, there's no foul called for goal tending.


Scoring

     You score 2 points for each successful shot. If you select
the 3-point shot option, you score 3 points for successful shots
made from the 3-point shot area. Shots from the foul line after
a defensive foul are worth 1 point each.

     *Defenders tend toward the direction chosen (either left or
right).

Offensive Plays

     Match the offensive play descriptions below to the
controller positions shown above. After moving the controller in
the direction shown for a play, press the fire button. Depending
upon the number of times you press the fire button, a different
action occurs when play begins.

Pick and Roll Left or Right 
Controller Position - Upper Left or Upper Right 
First button press  - Mr. Inside moves to post to set up pick
Second press        - Pass to Mr. Inside 
Third press         - Jump 
Fourth press        - Shoot

Give and Go Left or Right 
Controller Position - Left or Right 
First button press  - Mr. Inside moves to post to set up pick
Second press        - Pass to Mr. Inside 
Third press         - Pass to Mr. Outside 
Fourth press        - Jump 
Fifth press         - Shoot

Pick Left or Right 
Controller Position - Lower Left or Lower Right 
First button press  - Mr. Inside moves to post to set up pick
Second press        - Jump 
Third press         - Shoot

Mr. Inslde Shoots 
Controller Position - Top 
First button press  - Pass to Mr. Inside 
Second press        - Jump 
Third press         - Shoot

Mr. Outslde Shoots 
Controller Position - Bottom 
First button press  - Jump 
Second press        - Shoot


Defensive Plays

     Select the defensive play by moving the controller in one
of the directions shown above. The defensive play you select
matches the corresponding offensive play for the same controller
position.

Lane Defense 
Controller Position - Top 
Inside defender guards against pass

Tight Defense Right 
Controller Position - Upper Right 
Defenders guard close

Pass Defense Right 
Controller Position - Right 
Defenders guard against passes

Pick Defense Right 
Controller Position - Lower Right 
Inside defender switches off if pick is successful

Rebound Position Defense 
Controller Position - Bottom 
Inside defender stays close to basket

Pick Defense Left 
Controller Position - Lower Left 
Inside defender switches off if pick is successful

Pass Defense Left 
Controller Position - Left 
Defenders guard against passes

Tight Defense Left 
Controller Position - Upper Left 
Defenders guard close



ATARI

Atari Corporation is unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed
material after the date of publication and disclaims liability
for changes, errors, or omissions. Reproduction of this document
or of any portion of its contents is not allowed without the
specific written consent of Atari Corporation.

Atari the Atari logo, Double Dunk, 2600, and 7800 are trademarks
or registered trademarks of Atari Corporation.

Copyright (c) 1989, Atari Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. All
rights reserved

Printed in Hong Kong  C800016-159 Rev A       W. 2 .1992
