GAME INSTRUCTIONS 
AND CALORIE CHART

Plays on the Atari (r) Video Computer System TM and
Sears Tele-Game (r) Video Arcade (r)


FAST FOOD


TELESYS TM

FUN IN GAMES


STUFF YOURSELF!

Burgers, fries, shakes, pizzas . . . Flying by at sub-gastronomical speeds. 
You and Mr. Mouth have to catch 'em if you can. The higher the calorie 
count, the better your score. The more calories you consume the faster the 
food flies. 

But beware the purple pickles! Catch too many and your binge is over.

No matter how much you eat, you'll never gain a pound.

One Year Warranty (c) 1982 Telesys All rights reserved, Fremont, CA
Atari (r) and Video Computer System TM are trademarks of Atari, Inc.
Tele-Game (r) and Video Arcade (r) are trademarks of Sears, Roebuck and 
Co.


OBJECT OF THE GAME

Get Fatter! Consume as many calories as you can before you get your fill 
of purple pickles and the snack bar closes.

FAST FOOD PREPARATION

Play with one or two players using the Joystick Controllers. 

Always be sure the power is off before inserting or removing the FAST 
FOOD cartridge from your video game system. Use the controller plugged 
into the LEFT CONTROLLER jack for one player games. Hold the 
controller so the red button is to your upper left. The difficulty switch has 
no effect on this game.


BEGIN TO BINGE

Press game reset. (For two-person game press game select button and then 
reset.) Push the red button and your feast begins! Use the joystick  
controller to move Mr. Mouth up and down, forward and back. When Mr. 
Mouth comes in contact with any food item on the screen he eats it. It's 
your job to keep him away from the purple pickles. (Green ones are fine).

GETTING FATTER

You and Mr. Mouth will need a breather once in a while. The food stops 
coming and you get fatter. When you're done chewing push the red button. 
The barrage begins again and FAST FOOD gets faster. Eat anything you 
can catch, but don't get purple pickles. They'll hang around at the top of 
the screen, giving you a bad case of heartburn.

Collect six and you'll have to (burp!) call it quits. The game's over.

HELPFUL HINTS

The food flies totally at random each game. There are no patterns and no 
safe spots on the screen.

Remember there's no penalty for missing food, but it'll slow down your 
scoring. To get the best scores go after the higher-valued items.

Printed in Hong Kong


CALORIE COUNTS

Of course, what you eat is just as important as how much you eat. Here 
are the calorie counts for your favorite FAST FOOD.

Food 							Calories

Green Pickle                                                1

Root Beer                                                   3

Cola                                                        4

Soda Pop                                                    5

Hot Dog                                                     5

Hamburger                                                   6

Ice Cream Bar                                               7

Milk Shake                                                  7

Ice Cream Cone                                              9

French Fries                                                10

Pizza                                                       10

Cheeseburger                                                20


TWO PLAYER GAME

(For two-person game press game select button and then reset.) Players 
alternate every time the "You're Getting Fatter" sign comes down. The 
next player pushes the red button on the joystick controller to start his 
turn. Play continues until both players have burped out.

The first player's score is shown in gold, the second in purple. The highest 
score for the series of games is shown in white. This score is erased when 
the game is turned off or removed from the game console.

TELESYS TM

FUN IN GAMES.
43334 Bryant Street, Fremont, CA 94539

1003-1
-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
