M NETWORK

FROGS AND FLIES TM

I N S T R U C T I O N S
 (For 1 or 2 players)

The object of the game is to make frogs catch flies. Points are won by
manipulating a frog so that he jumps off a lily pad and scoops up flying
insects with a flashing tongue. Jump him too late and you'll miss. Jump
him too far and he'll land in the pond. you'll have to wait for him to swim
back before trying again. Day & night action. Catch more flies than an
opponent. Or beat your own top score!

For Your Atari* Video Game System

(c) Mattel, Inc. 1982. Hawthorne, CA 90250. PRINTED IN U.S.A. All 
Rights Reserved.

*ATARI is a trademark of ATARI, INC.


THE GAME

With TV set turned on, SWITCH ON the console and press RESET.
Swamp scene will appear. Press the red button on either joystick. As the 
action starts, different color frogs sit on side-by-side lily pads. Use the 
joystick to make your frog jump up and catch flies by touching them with 
his flashing tongue. Two points for each catch! Scores in contrasting 
colors at the top of your screen. As the game continues, Day will gradually 
turn into NIGHT. Game time lasts about three minutes. At the finish, frogs 
leap off the screen and a title "THE END" will crawl across the sky.


THE CONTROLLERS

Use the joystick controllers with this game. Be sure the controller cables 
are securely plugged into the back of your game console. Each player 
holds the controller so that the RED BUTTON is to the upper left.


DIFFICULTY SWITCHES

In the two player game, both players DO NOT have to play at the same 
difficulty (skill) level. Adults can give little kids a break by selecting the 
HARDER level.

DIFFICULTY can be changed at any time - before or during a game.

Push SWITCH to position B for the EASY GAME...

*	Moving the joystick will cause the frog to jump in a fixed arc every 
time from one lily pad to the other. Frog will not fall in the water in the 
EASY game.

*	In the easy game frog's tongue can be automatic. As soon as frog 
gets close enough tongue will flash out by itself and catch the fly. 
(However, you can ALSO make the tongue flash with the RED 
BUTTON.)

Push SWITCH to position A for HARDER GAME...

*	Joystick will control how frog jumps - high or low, left or right. No 
fixed arc.

*	Red button must be pushed to make the frog's tongue flash. Just 
getting close to the fly won't do it. You must Use the red button.

NOTE: If either player is in the EASY game mode (B position), flies will
stay in a fairly narrow path at the top of your screen. Flies will be easier to 
locate & catch. In the HARDER mode (A position) flies will cover a 
much larger screen area.

Whenever either joystick controller is not used for 15 SECONDS, com-
puter will take over and jump frog automatically. Automatically con-
trolled frog will jump every couple of seconds. Tongue flash is also
automatic.


JUMPING THE FROGS

FULL CONTROL (Harder "A" game). Joystick moves frog in 8 
directions.

			TOP
			Steep angle
			jump


LEFT (top)					RIGHT (top)
Steep angle					Steep angle
Jump						Jump

LEFT (middle)					RIGHT (middle)
Medium angle					Medium angle
Jump						Jump


LEFT (bottom)					RIGHT (bottom)
Shallow angle					Shallow angle
jump						jump


			BOTTOM
			Shallow angle
			jump



*	TOP or BOTTOM positions make frog jump the SAME way he is 
facing already.

*	Left or right move of the Joystick jumps frog that way, left or right.

*	How HIGH frog jumps depends on how LONG you hold the 
Joystick.

*	QUICK release on the Joystick makes frog take a short jump. 
HOLDING on a second makes frog take a long jump.

REMEMBER: In the HARDER game just getting close to a fly won't 
catch him! You MUST work the RED BUTTON. Make frog's tongue 
flash.

TO START A NEW GAME...Depress RESET control. Swamp will go 
back to daytime, score will return to zero.


WINNING TIPS

DONT FALL IN the pond! Your frog will be out of business. You'll have 
to WAIT until he swims back to the pad before you can try for another 
score.
	    
In the "B" EASY GAME, the automatic tongue is most effective when 
frog isn't on the way up or down. Time your jumps so that frog gets 
closest to fly at the highest or lowest point in his jump.

WATCH THE TIME. Game time is three minutes. Watch for the 
changing sky - from daylight to sunset and darkness. Change to black of 
night means scoring time is running out!

REMEMBER: an inactive frog won't stay inactive! In the one player 
game, the computer COULD BEAT you by working the other frog 
automatically. And whenever any frog is not moved for 15 seconds, 
computer will take over.


90 DAY LIMITED WARRANTY

Mattel Electronics warrants to the original consumer purchaser of any
cartridge or cassette it manufactures that the product will be free of
defects in material or workmanship for 90 days fo the date of
purchase. If defective, return the product along wlth proof of the
date-of-purchase to either your local dealer or, postage prepaid, to:

Mattel Electronics Service Center (West)
13040 East Temple Ave
City Of Industry, California 91746

Mattel Electronics Service Center (East)
10 Abeel Road
Cranbury Nev Jersey 08512

for repair or replacement. This warranty gives you specific legal rights,
and you may also have other rights which vary from state to state. This
warranty does not cover damage resulting from accident, misuse or
abuse.

MATTEL ELECTRONICS
-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
