Guide No. 14344

TAITO
Front Line

CARTRIDGE INSTRUCTIONS

For use with the Gemini, Ataris 2600 VCS and other compatible game systems.

It will take all the skill you've got to fight the battle that wins the war!

COLECO  
No. 2665

GAME DESCRIPTION

It's dangerous. It's mean. It's WAR! And now, you are there!

Your mission? Invade enemy territory and knock out the fortress. To do it, you'll have to
travel over tricky terrain and fight against overwhelming odds at every step.

Evade attacks, search and destroy lumbering tanks! Storm the river bridge to face your
most difficult challenge: the enemy fort! You must demolish it or die. And if you succeed? 
A new assignment is yours on another front, against a more experienced army. There's no 
rest, no relaxation, no letting down your guard. You're in the Army now!

GETTING READY TO PLAY

ALWAYS MAKE SURE THE GAME SYSTEM IS OFF BEFORE INSERTING OR 
REMOVING A CARTRIDGE.

Choose your challenge

Insert the cartridge, then turn your game system on. The Game Option Screen will appear 
on your TV. You'll notice a number in the upper portion of your screen, indicating skill level
(1 = Skill 1, 2 = Skill 2, and so on.). It is followed by a small tank, indicating number of 
players (One tank = one player and two tanks = two players.). Press the GAME SELECT 
switch until you reach the Skill Level and number of players you desire. Continue pressing 
the GAME SELECT switch to cycle through the various game options.

Skill 1 is the easiest level, suitable for play by new recruits.

Skill 2 is a little harder than Skill 1. Enemies are more treacherous.

Skill 3 is just right for well-trained soldiers and experienced fighters.

Skill 4 is tough, even for seasoned military personnel!

Player 1 uses the left controller and Player 2 uses the right controller.

NOTE: If you have a color TV, be sure the B-W/Color switch is set to the "Color" position.

USING YOUR CONTROLS

1. Hand Controller: Hold the controller with the Play/Action   Button to your upper left 
(toward the TV).

2. Control Stick: Use the Control Stick for strategic maneuvers. Press it in any direction to 
march your foot soldier in the selected direction.

Press the Control Stick to aim his weapon. A moving soldier fires in the direction he is 
marching. By momentarily tapping the Control Stick while the soldier is standing still, you 
can also change the direction of his fire (aim) without moving him.

When your soldier is driving a tank, press the Control Stick in any direction to advance the 
tank in the selected direction.

Press the Control Stick to aim the tank's turret. A rolling tank fires in the direction it is 
moving. By momentarily tapping the Control Stick while the tank is standing still, you can 
also change the direction of its fire (aim) without moving the tank. Release the Control Stick
to put your battle-weary soldier "at ease"

3. Play/Action Button: Press this button to fire your weapon while pressing the Control 
Stick to aim the fire.

Firing:

1. When you're an infantryman, press this button to fire a bullet at enemy infantry or to fire 
an anti-tank missile at enemy tanks.

2. When you're in a light tank, press this button to spray machine gun fire at enemy tanks.

3. When you're in a heavy tank, press this button to fire a cannon shot at enemy tanks.
Military Alert: To fire your weapon in the same direction as previously fired, release the 
Control Stick and press the Play/Action Button.

Jumping:

To jump into a tank, press this button while you are touching the tank and the Control Stick
is in neutral. Jump out by pressing and holding in the button until your soldier leaves the 
tank.

Press GAME RESET to start the game.

Note: The DIFFICULTY SWITCHES are not used in this game.

HERE'S HOW TO PLAY

From the top

When the war begins, the player up and number of soldiers remaining appear in the upper 
portion of the battlefield. After a few seconds, they are replaced by a number indicating 
your score.

On the road

Your goal is to invade the enemy's territory and destroy their fort. When the action begins, 
you're a humble foot soldier out on the road, armed only with a loaded pistol and antitank 
missiles. Use the Control Stick to move up the road and closer to the enemy fort.

The battle begins

As you dash up the roadway, the enemy is close at hand. Use the Control Stick to direct 
your aim, then press the Play/Action Button to fire your pistol.

Tricky terrain

Those clumps of trees supply plenty of shade, but sometimes they only get in your way. If 
you get stuck behind one, you'll have to maneuver carefully to get through or move in the 
opposite direction to free yourself. And remember: You can't shoot bullets or fire anti-tank 
missiles through the trees.

Into the brush

Whew! You made it to the end of the road--but your enemies won't give up that easily. See 
what new tactics they have in store as you fight your way through the brush.

Unsafe passage

The bad news? That dense underbrush will slow your movement if you don't steer clear. 
The good news? Your enemies won't be able to travel through it very quickly either!

Fight fire with fire.

All is not well when your enemies start to retreat. They'll be back in no time at all--protected
by tanks! Keep in mind that lumbering, heavy tanks move very slowly, but light tanks are 
faster. The heat is on.

When you finally make it through the tangled brush, you're getting closer to the enemy's 
fort. But you've still got a long way to go. This time, the battle will be waged over burning 
desert sands.

Tanks, I needed that!

You locate an abandoned tank just in time! Hold in the Play/Action Button to jump inside. 
Now you'll have better weapons to use on the enemy. To leave the tank, simply hold in the 
button until your soldier jumps out.

Bail out!

If your tank is hit, it will shake for a few seconds before it explodes. Briefly press the 
Play/Action Button to jump out in a hurry.

On the rocks

The heat is bad, but those rocks jutting out of the sand are even worse. If you keep at it 
long enough, you'll be able to pass over them, but you'd be wisest to maneuver around 
them. And don't even try to shoot through them!

Cactus tactics

What would a desert be without cactuses? This particular desert has plenty, so watch out. 
If you run into any (ouch!), you'll have to back out again.

Down by the river

There it is! The river at the end of the desert! Use the Control Stick to safely cross the 
bridge.

Off the wall

Once across the bridge, you're confronted with a dangerous obstacle course designed to 
keep you from reaching the enemy's fort. Those ruined walls provide cover from enemy fire, 
but they're tough to get around-and even tougher to get over! No tanks!

Now the trouble really starts. You're close enough to fire on the fort, but if you're in a tank, 
you must jump out and fire an anti-tank missile. Meanwhile, enemy tanks roll on!

Onward, soldier!

Congratulations! You've succeeded in destroying the enemy's fort! Your reward? Transfer 
to another front to fight against an even more experienced enemy at the next highest skill 
level (up to skill 4). You've won the battle. Will you win the war?

Starting over

Press GAME RESET to replay the FRONT LINE Game Option that you've just finished. 
Press GAME SELECT to return to the Game Option screen and choose a new challenge.

SCORING

You earn 100 points for every enemy eliminated. When you complete a round (by 
destroying the fort), you receive an additional 1000 points times the number of the skill 
level just completed.

You start the game with five friendly soldiers and receive a bonus soldier when you 
complete a round (up to a maximum of five soldiers in all).

THE FUN OF DISCOVERY

This instruction booklet provides the basic information you'lI need to start playing FRONT 
LINE, but it's only the beginning! You'll find that this cartridge contains special features 
that make FRONT LINE exciting every time you play. Experiment with different strategies--
and enjoy the game! 

90-DAY LIMITED WARRANTY

   Coleco warrants to the original consumer purchaser in the United States of America that 
this video game cartridge will be free of defects in material or workmanship for 90 days from 
the date of purchase under normal in-house use.

   Coleco's sole and exclusive liability for defects in material and workmanship shall be 
limited to repair or replacement at its authorized Coleco Service Station. This warranty does 
not obligate Coleco to bear the cost of transportation charges in connection with the repair 
or replacement of defective parts.

   This warranty is invalid if the damage or defect is caused by accident, act of God, 
consumer abuse, unauthorized alteration or repair, vandalism, or misuse.

   Any implied warranties arising out of the sale of the video game cartridges including the 
implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are limited to the 
above 90 day period. Coleco shall in no event be liable for incidental, consequential, 
contingent or any other damages.

   This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may have other rights which vary 
from State to State. Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or 
consequential damages or limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts, so the above 
limitations or exclusions may not apply to you.

SERVICE POLICY

    Please read your Video Game Owner's Manual carefully before using the product. If your 
video game cartridge fails to operate properly, please refer to the trouble-shooting checklist
in the Owner's Manual for your particular video system. If you cannot correct the 
malfunction after consulting the trouble shooting checklist, please call Customer Service on
Coleco's toll-free service hotline: 1-800-842-1225 nationwide. This service is in operation 
from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, Monday through Friday.

   If Customer Service advises you to return your video game cartridge, please return it 
postage prepaid and insured, with your name, address, proof of the date of purchase, and a 
brief description of the problem to the Service Station you have been directed to return it to
by the toll-free service information. If your cartridge is found to be factory defective during 
the first 90 days, it will be repaired or replaced at no cost to you. If the cartridge is found to 
have been consumer damaged or abused and therefore not covered by the warranty, then 
you will be advised, in advance, of repair costs.

   If your cartridge requires service after expiration of the 90 day Limited Warranty period, 
please call Coleco's tollfree service hotline for instructions on how to proceed: 1-800-842-
1225 nationwide. 

FRONT LINE by Taito

FRONT LINE is a trademark of Taito America Corp. (C)1982 Taito America Corp.

ATARI is a registered trademark of Atari, Inc.

GEMINI is a registered trademark of Coleco Industries, Inc.

Package, Program and Audiovisual (C)1984 Coleco Industries, Inc. Amsterdam, New York 
12010

COLECO
Printed in U.S.A.