Use the Joystick Controllers with this Game Cartridge. Be sure to
plug the two Controller cables firmly into the Video Arcade.

NOTE: The Console unit should be OFF when inserting or removing a
Game Cartridge.

HOW TO PLAY GUNSLINGER

One or two players can become expert gunslingers during these games:

In one-player games (Target Shooting), you control the movement of
a gunslinger with the left Joystick Controller. Practice target
shooting with the moving target that appears on the screen.

In two-player games (Gunslinger Games), each player controls the
movement of a gunslinger with a Joystick Controller. You score points
when your gunslinger shoots your opponent's gunslinger.

NOTE: In all one and two-player games, bullets will ricochet off the
upper and lower playfield boundaries.

Use the Joystick Controller to: 

Move the gunslinger on the screen

Aim and shoot bullets from the gunslinger's gun

Push the Joystick forward to move the gunslinger up the screen. Pull
the Joystick towards you to move the gunslinger down the screen.

To move the gunslinger to the left, move the Joystick to the left;
move the Joystick to the right to move the gunslinger to the right.

When you want to aim the gunslinger's gun, press the red Controller
button. Hold the button down while you control the movement of the
gunslinger's arm with your Joystick Controller.

Push the Joystick forward to move UP the gunslinger's arm holding
the gun

Pull the Joystick towards you to move DOWN the gunslinger's arm
that is holding the gun

After you have aimed the gunslinger's arm that holds the gun, release
the button to fire bullets.

NOTE: The player using the left Joystick Controller controls the
gunslinger on the left side of the screen; the right controller
player controls the right gunslinger.

SCORING

In one-player games, you score one point each time a bullet from
your gunslinger's gun hits the moving target. You have 99 seconds to
score a maximum of ten points. The timing clock appears in the upper
right corner of the playfield; the gunslinger's score is in the upper
left corner.

In two-player games you score one point each time a bullet from
your gunslinger's gun hits the opposing gunslinger. When a gunslinger
is hit, it will sit down and the point appears at the top of the
screen. The score of the gunslinger from the left side of the
playfield appears in the upper left corner; the right playfield
gunslinger's score appears in the upper right corner. The first
player to score ten points wins the game.

SKILL OPTIONS

Expert position: Your bullets will disappear in flight if your
gunfighter is shot before your bullets hit target.

Novice position: Your bullets will continue in flight even if your
gunfighter is hit before your bullet hits a target.

GUNSLINGER'S CODE

There are 16 gunslinger and target shooting games in the Game
Cartridge. Each one presents different variations. For a description
of each variation, refer to the following code:

BLOWAWAY: Your bullets are more powerful during gunfights with
Blowaway. You can shoot away pieces of the protective center -- a
Stage Coach, Wall or Cactus -- until it completely disappears.

CACTUS: Some gunfights and target shooting games occur with a Cactus
in the center of the playfield. Bullets cannot penetrate the Cactus.
Use the Cactus as protection from your opponent's shots.

STAGE COACH: A Stage Coach stands between the two gunslingers during
some games. Bullets cannot penetrate the Stage Coach, making it ideal
for protection against opposing bullets. In some games, a series of
Stage Coaches will MOVE up the screen between you and your opponent.

WALL: In some games, a wall is located between the two gunslingers.
These games also feature Blowaway. Use your shots to make a hole in
the wall and aim at your opponent.

GETAWAY: During a gunfight with Getaway, each gunslinger can move
immediately after shooting the gun. Without Getaway, gunslingers must
wait until their bullet disappears off the screen or hits a target.

SIX SHOOTER: In these gunfights with Six Shooters, each player's gun
only has six bullets in it. Receive another round of ammunition when
BOTH players have used all six bullets.

TARGET SHOOT: The Target Shoot is a feature of one-player games. The
Target bounces up and down on the screen while you attempt to make a
direct hit.

GUNSLINGER TWO-PLAYER GAMES

GAME 1
This gunfight between two players features a Cactus.

GAME 2
Two players use the Cactus and Getaway to plan their gunfight
strategy.

GAME 3
A Cactus and Blowaway characterize this two-player gunfight.

GAME 4
The two gunslingers use Six Shooters during this gunfight which
features a center Cactus and Blowaway.

GAME 5
A center Stage Coach stands between the two gunslingers during this
game.

GAME 6
Players must take special aim as a series of Stage Coaches MOVE
between the two gunslingers.

GAME 7
This gunfight features a Stage Coach and Blowaway.

GAME 8
A series of Stage Coaches MOVE between the two gunslingers as they
use Blowaway in their playing strategy.

GAME 9
Two gunfighters play with Six Shooters, Blowaway and a series of
MOVING Stage Coaches between them.

GAME 10
The two gunslingers use Six Shooter during this gunfight which
features Blowaway and a center Wall.

GAME 11
Players use Getaway, Blowaway and a center Wall in their gunfighting
strategy.

GAME 12
The center wall MOVES between the two gunslingers as they play with
Getaway and Blowaway.

TARGET SHOOTING
ONE-PLAYER GAMES

GAME 13
You control one gunslinger on the screen which scores points by
hitting the Target Shoot. A center Cactus is between you and the
Target Shoot.

GAME 14
This target shooting game features a Target Shoot, a center Cactus
and Blowaway.

GAME 15
This game features the Target Shoot and a center Stage Coach.

GAME 16
A series of Stage Coaches MOVE between the gunslinger and the Target
Shoot. This game also features Blowaway.
-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
