	Instructions
	H A L L O W E E N

	The Game Where HE Comes Home!

	[Picture of the Halloween Movie Poster, with a hand holding a knife,
morphing into a pumpkin.]

	Wizard Video Games
Will you survive the night HE comes home?  WIZARD VIDEO GAMES presents the
HALLOWEEN VIDEO GAME, for your ATARI 2600 or SEARS Tele-Game Video Game.

A homicidal maniac has escaped from a mental institution.  On Halloween
night, the killer returns to his home town to wreak havoc!  You are
babysitting for a family in a large, two story house.  Somehow the vengeful
murderer has gotten inside!  Can you protect the children and yourself from
the fury of his knife?

TO BEGIN PLAY
1.	Following the manufacturer's instructions, connect your video game to
your television set.
2.	With the power switch OFF, insert the game cartridge.
3.	Turn the power ON.
4.	Neither the difficulty switch nor the game select switch is used in this
game.
5.	Plug one joystick controller into the left controller port.  Hold the
controller with the red button in the upper left corner.
7.	To begin the game, press the reset button.
(there was no step #6...)

PLAYSCREEN
[Screen shot of the Halloween game.]

HOW TO PLAY THE HALLOWEEN VIDEO GAME
You control the babysitter character, and, at certain times, the child
characters.  As you move through the sixteen rooms of the two story house,
avoid the killer when he appears.  He will attempt to stab you and the
children, so look for the knife with which to defend yourself.  At the top
of the screen are jack-o-lanterns indicating how many of your three lives
remain.  At the bottom of your screen is the score.

SAVING THE CHILDREN:
Using your joystick, move the babysitter through the house, dodging the
killer as you search for the terrified children.  When you spot a fleeing
child, position the babysitter directly over the child and press the
joystick button.  This will "lock in" the child, and he will thereafter
follow the babysitter as you race for one of the four safe rooms.

SAFE ROOMS:
Safe rooms are located at either end of the house, two on each floor.  After
you have successfully delivered a child to a safe room, press the joystick
button.  The child will be released, and the appropriate points will be
added to your score.  The child will disappear after points are added and
the babysitter leaves the safe room.

THE KNIFE:
Somewhere in the house is a knife, which the babysitter may use to stab the
killer.  To pick up the knife, position the babysitter over the knife and
press the joystick button.  If you are armed when the killer attacks, press
the joystick button to thrust the knife.  CAUTION: Your thrust will be
successful only if the killer's knife is in the "up" position.  The killer
will flee the room if stabbed.  The knife will vanish from the babysitter's
hand and reappear in another room of the house.  NOTE: The babysitter may
not "lock in" a child while she is carrying the knife!  She must first
attempt to stab the killer.

DOORWAYS:
1. In the safe rooms at either end of the house, stairways lead to the upper
or lower floors.
2. Two other rooms on each level contain hallways.  Entering one of these
hallways will skip the babysitter two rooms to the other hall door on the
same level.

BLACKOUTS:
Beware of electrical blackouts on the upper level, for the house is old and
the wiring is faulty.  At any moment, you may find yourself plunged into
darkness with the killer in pursuit!


OBJECT OF THE GAME
Try to lead as many children as possible to the protection of the "safe
rooms" before you lose your three lives.

Scoring:
1.	For each child delivered to a safe room, you will receive 675 points.
2.	An additional 325 points is awarded each time you stab the killer with
the knife hidden somewhere in the house.
3.	Successfully stabbing the killer twice OR rescuing five children advances
you to the next level of play.
4.	Game play on higher levels is more difficult, and point values increase
considerably.  Point values in Level 2 are twice that of Level 1.  Values in
Level 3 are three times that of Level 1, etc.

HELPFUL HINTS
1.	The killer will catch you only if he is toe-to-toe with the babysitter.
2.	When leading a child to a safe room, you may find the murderer in your
patch.  Try pushing up on the joystick.  The babysitter and the child will
momentarily separate, allowing the killer to pass harmlessly between them.
3.	Don't bother search for the knife while leading a child, for it won't appear.
4.	Listen for the ominous "HALLOWEEN" theme music, which follows the maniac
wherever he goes.


WIZARD VIDEO GAMES WARRANTY POLICY
90 Day Warranty
WIZARD VIDEOGAMES will replace the product within 90 days of purchase if
defective in material or manufacture, provided it is delivered or sent
postpaid with proof of purchase to Wizard Videogames.  This warranty does
not cover damage resulting from accident, abuse, or misuse.  This warranty
gives you specific legal rights.  You may also have other rights which vary
from state to state.  Direct all returns to: WIZARD VIDEO GAMES, 948 N.
Fairfax Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90046

Atari is a registered trademark of ATARI, INC.
Copyright 1983 Wizard Video Games


