HANGMAN

Game Program Instructions

Atari, Inc. Consumer Division
1195 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086

(C)1978 Atari, Inc.


Use your Joystick Controllers with this Atari Game Program. Be
sure the Controllers are firmly plugged into the LEFT and RIGHT
CONROLLER jacks at the rear of your Atari Video Computer System.
Hold the Controller with the red button to your upper left toward
the television screen.

Note: Always turn the console power switch OFF when inserting or
removing an Atari Game Program. This will protect the electronic
components and prolong the life of your Atari Video Computer System.


CONTROLLER ACTION
-----------------

Use the Controller to select the alphabet letter you wish to enter
into the computer. Letters of the alphabet appear one at a time
on the right of the screen. Push the Joystick forward to cycle through
the alphabet letters from A to Z. Pull the Joystick towards you to
cycle through the letters in reverse order from Z to A. When the
letter you want appears on the screen, release the Joystick. Press
the red Controller button to enter the letter you select into the
computer.


HANDICAP Difficulty Switch
--------------------------

When the Difficulty Switch is in the "A" position, a player has 20
seconds to select the next letter with the Joystick. When the
difficulty is in the "B" position, there is no time limit.


SCORING
-------

In one-player Hangman games, a player is allowed 11 incorrect letters.
If the player has not completed the word after 11 incorrect guesses,
the game is lost. You score one point for each game you win; the
computer scores one point for each game you lose.

During two-payer games, 11 incorrect letter selections are also
allowed between the two players. The player who completes the last
letter in the word receives one point. The first player to score
five points wins the game.


HOW TO PLAY
-----------

Don't let this game make a monkey out of you when you test your word
skill. The action begins after you press the Reset switch on the
console. Line spaces appear at the bottom of the screen. One space
equals one letter of the Hangman Word. If there are six spaces, for
example, the Hangman Word couold be LUXURY.

Your object? To complete the Hangman Word within eleven incorrect
letter guesses. Games 1, 2, 3 and 4 are one-player games in which
one player competes against himself and the computer. During
two-player games of Game 5, 6, 7 and 8, two players compete to
guess the Hangman Word first within eleven incorrect guesses. In
Game 9, one player composes the Hangman Word for the opponent to
guess.

The difficulty of the Hangman Word is determined by the game number:

Games 1 and 5
First through third grade vocabulary.

Games 2 and 6
First through sixth grade vocabulary.

Games 3 and 7
First through ninth grade vocabulary.

Games 4 and 8
First through high school vacabulary.


Use your Joystick to select the alphabet letters that appear on the
right of the screen. (See Controller Action) Enter the letter
into the computer with the red Controller button.

* If the letter you select is in the Hangman Word, it appears in the
  appropriate blank or blanks.
* If the letter you select is not in the Hangman Word, a part of
  the Monkey appears in the upper left corner of the screen and that
  letter is deleted from the alphabet cycle.

If you havn't completed the Hangman Word after eleven wrong selections,
the Hangman Word automatically appears in the spaces and the Monkey
is completed in the upper left corner.

In one-player games, the number of games you win appears in the upper
left corner; the number of games you lose appears in the upper right
corner.

In two-player games, a player scores one point for completing the
Hangman Word. The first player to score five points in the winner.
The left Controller player's score appears in the upper left corner;
the right Controller player's score is in the upper right corner.


HANGMAN 1-Player Games
----------------------

Games 1, 2, 3 and 4 are one-player games. You compete against the
computer. You score one point for every Hangman Word you complete;
the computer scores one point for each Hangman Word you can't
complete.

Game 1
One player competes against the computer that uses words from a first
through third grade vocabulary.

Game 2
One player competes against the computer that uses words from a first
through sixth grade vocabulary.

Game 3
Playing with words from a first through ninth grade level, one player
competes against the computer.

Game 4
Words from a first through high school vocabulary are used for
competition between one player and the computer.


HANGMAN 2-Player Computer Games
-------------------------------

Games 5, 6, 7 and 8 are two-player games against the computer. After
you select the game vocabulary you want to use, you and your
opponent take turns selecting alphabet letters to find the word
generated by the computer. Both players together are allowed 11
incorrect selections. When you make a correct letter guess, you
receive a consecutive turn. The first player to complete the Hangman
Word scores one point and starts the next word. The first player
to score five points wins the game.

Game 5
Two players compete to complete the Hangman Word from a first through
third grade vocabulary.

Game 6
Two players test their word skill with Hangman Words from a first
through sixth grade vocabulary.

Game 7
Words from a first through ninth grade vocabulary are used for
competition between two players.

Game 8
Two players compete using words from a first through high school
vocabulary.


HANGMAN 2-Player Opponent Games
--------------------------------

Game 9
Now it's your turn to choose the Hangman Word. Instead of playing
with a computer word, one player composes the Hangman Word with
the Joystick Controller; the opposing player receives eleven guesses
to complete the Hangman Word.

To enter your own Hangman Word into the computer, cycle through the
alphabet letters on the screen while your opponent avoids looking
at the screen. The Hangman Word may be between one and six letters.

If you want CAT to be the Hangman Word, cycle to the letter C and
enter it into the computer by pressing the red Controller button.
Repeat this process for the letters A and T. To enter the same letter
in succession, cycle to the letter, and enter it into the computer.
Cycle off the letter then move back to the letter again. Now enter
it into the computer and the letter appears a second time.

Use the blank that precedes the letter A to fill in any empty
spaces.

Now the game begins, and it's your opponent's turn to guess your
Hangan Word, CAT.

Two players take turns composing the Hangman Word and completing
the Hangman Word. You score one point when you complete the Hangman
Word your opponent has submitted. The player who scores five points
first is the winner.
