HERO

R. Hero's
Guide to Rescue Etiquette


Duty Calls!

Roderick Hero, at your service. Please, call me R. Hero.
Everyone else does. I wish to address myself to fledging
Heros and All-Around Good Guys everywhere. A crisis is
afoot, affording me an ideal opportunity to share a few 
of the finer points of heroic endeavor with you. Do pay attention.

Volcanic activity has trapped miners in mineshafts in Mount Leone.
I shall use equipment (some think it rather nifty) of my own invention
to help miners no mere mortal can reach. It would give me 
great pleasure to have your help.

The object of this undertaking is to rescue all the miners possible
beofre running out of lives.

Making Ready!

Do follow these simple instructions. There's a good fellow.

- Insert cartridge. Turn power ON.

- Plug in the left joystick controller. (See "Essentials" for use)

- Select one of five one-player games with the game select switch.
  The higher the game number, the deeper within the mine one begins  
  and the more advanced the challenge. (See "Rescue Challenge Chart".)

- To start, press game reset. Note how Yours Truly hovers in a mineshaft,
  ready to go once the power gauge turns completely yellow. One need
  only move the joystick to begin.

- Reserves. I embark with four opportunities - very well then, "lives" -
  one in use, three in reserve. One acquires an additional life, to 
  a maximum of six in reserve, for every 20,000 points earned.

- Power Gauge. One hears and sees the power gauge fill at the start 
  of each level. Power begins to diminish when the joystick is moved
  at the beginning of each level or after a reserve life appears on
  the screen. If power runs out and a reserve life remains, one
  reappears at the top of that level.

- Game ends when one runs out of lives, of course.



Some Essentials

"Must haves" for the rescuer in the know.

Prop-pack. My greatest inspiration, to which I'm very attached.
This propeller pack allows one to fly where one wishes.
- to fly up: push joytsick forward.
- to run or fly left or right: move joystick left or right.
- to hover: tap joystick forward.
- to fly down a shaft: Step off ledge. Gravity does the rest!

Microlaser Beam. The helmet comes equipped with a microlaser beam.
With it one can blast vile vermin. The Beam can also slice through
walls, but this takes time and time costs precious power.
- to fire: press joystick button.
- for continuous fire: press and hold button.

Dynamite. One begins each game and every mineshaft level with six
sticks of dynamite, each of whcih can demolish a small wall.
- land and move near a wall
- to place and ignite dynamite: pull joystick toward you. Then move
  fast or be blown up! I, R. Hero, cannot stress this enough.

Raft. A heat-resistant raft floats on certain stretches of the lava 
river. If it can carry R. Hero across the river when he lands on it 
(it can), it can carry you. A word to the wise: Getting off
isn't always easy!


Planning the Perfect Outing

One should make it a point to be as familiar with the details of a
rescue operation as with guests in one's home. To wit:

Meet the Mineshaft: Mineshafts extend vertically and horizontally
deep into Mount Leone. Some dead end;others are blocked by walls.
Some walls and surfaces glow red; these contain magma deopists,
molten lava behind the rock. Like lava rivers, magma deposits
cost one life should one be careless enough to touch
them. Oh yes, before I forget, lanterns light these murky mineshafts.
Touch or shoot one and that section of the mine will go dark.
Most unpleasant.

Hello to Hazards. The shafts, you will note, are alive with various vermin: 
Springing spiders, shaft bats, mine moths and nesting snakes. Do avoid 
them, or blast the loathsome little beggars with the microlaser beam.
In addition, a tentacle traces one's every move over certain parts of the 
lava river. As one cannot shoot it, practice caution. Touching
any of these hazards results in a lose of life, alas.

How Low Can One Go? One must locate a miner on each level before
moving lower in the mine. The deeper one goes, the faster things
move, the more dangerous and numerous the challenges become and
the harder it is to find the miner. The current level number 
appears in place of the score at the beginning of each level.
To tackle tougher tunnels right away, one may start the resuce
mission at deeper levels.


Rescue Challenge Chart

Game Number			Starting Level
1				1
2				5
3				9
4				13
5				17

* Game 5 starts on level 17, but all following levels are random.
No level number appears during game 5.

In games 1-4, the word PRO appears in place of the level number after
level 20. My highest accolade, you can bve sure.


Scoring


- Shoot a critter		50 points
- Each dynamite stick
  remaining when miner
  is rescused			50 points
- Dynamite a wall		75 points
- Rescue Miner			1000 points


One earns additional points for every unit of power remaining
when a miner is rescued. The higher the level number, the more
each unit of power is worth.

The day has been saved when the score reaches 1,000,000. The
rescue operation ceases. Can you say what else happens? 
R. Hero, of course, knows...


Join the Activision "Order of the H.E.R.O."

Score 75,000 points or more and join ranks with R. Hero
in the Order of the H.E.R.O. Just send us a pciture of your TV
screen shwing your score. Be sure to include your name and address.
We'll send you an official Order of the H.E.R.O. emblem. Be sure
to write "H.E.R.O. VCS" and your score on the front corner of
the envelope.

H.E.R.O. Hints for the hearty hero
Tips from John Van Ryzin

John Van Ryzin collects camera. He golfs. He camps, and goes canoeing.
In addition, he's from New Jersey. But what you must understand about
John is, he loves his work. He thrives on it. As proof of this, he 
belongs to almost every Activision club. No mean feat, that.

"The mineshafts of Mount Leone present many challenges to a rescuer.
I recommend you watch the opening sequence before playing the game.
It'll give you a feel for the terrain and help you recognize some
of the dangers ahead. Also, the more you play, the better you'll learn
your way around the different mineshafts. Since speed in locating 
miners earns you more points, you'll want to move as quickly and
efficiently as possible. Here are a few tips I think you might
find useful.

- the dynamite R. Hero carries is potent. He doesn't need to be right
  next to a wall in order to blow it up.
- If R. Hero runs out of dynamite, he can burn through walls with the
  microlaser beam. The closer he stands to the wall, the faster he'll
  break through.
- If a lantern goes out, find mineshafts by looking at the rough edges
  along the bottom of the screen.
- When flying above the river, ride the ceiling by pushing up as well as 
  to the left or right.
- Ride rafts whenever possible since it is easier than trying to go 
  under a lava ceiling.
- A word about tentacles: They don't move too fast, so don't try to
  outrun them.

Hope that helps some. You'll discover your own techniques as you plumb
the depths of the mine. Let me hear what they are when you emerge
from 'down under'."




