INDY 500

GAME PROGRAM (tm) INSTRUCTIONS

Model CX2611

ATARI (r)

A Warner Communications Company

ATARI, INC. Consumer Division
1195 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086

(c) 1977 ATARI, INC.

Use your Driving Controllers with this ATARI (r) Game Program
(tm). Be sure the Controllers are firmly plugged into the LEFT
and RIGHT CONTROLLER jacks at the rear of your ATARI Video
Computer System.

CONTROLLER ACTION

In all the racing games, use the knob on the top of your
controller to steer the race car on the playfield. The red
button on the side of the Controller is your race car
accelerator. Press it and VROOOM!

SCORING

In one-player time trial games, you race against the clock.
See how many laps you can make around the tracks in 60
seconds. Race against another player in two-player racing
games. The first player to complete 25 laps wins.

In games of Crash n' Score (r), a player scores one point each
time his race car crashes into the white square. In one-player
games, a player has 60 seconds to make as many hits as
possible. In two-player games, the first player to score 50
points wins.

During two-player Tag (tm) games, you score one point for each
second you avoid being tagged by your opponent.

In all games you lose only time, not points, when you crash
into any playfield boundary or barrier.

DIFFICULTY

Slide the Difficulty Switch from "B" to "A" position and your
race car travels at high speed - making it more difficult for
you to control.

RACE CAR

Whether you compete against the clock or another player, your
race car tackles the curves of some dangerous tracks.

During one-player games, you race against the clock using your
left Controller to move the car. The top left number on the
playfield is the number of laps;the top right number is the
time keeper.

In two-player games, players race against each other. The top
two numbers represent the number of laps each player
completes. The right score refers to the right Controller
player; the left number shows the left Controller player's
score.

You'll hear the engines when they accelerate, and the CRASH
when your car crashes into the opponents car or playfield
boundaries.

Car races begin at the starting line. Then, get ready, get
set...GO!

GAME 1
Grand Prix Track
Hang onto your hats as you round the turns on this track.
You're racing against an opponent who's out to complete 25
laps first to be the winner. Give him a run for his money!

GAME 2
Grand Prix Race Track (Time Trial)
Race against the clock on the Grand Prix track. You have 60
seconds to complete as many laps as possible. Try to beat your
last record. Great practice for your races against opponents
on this track.

GAME 3
Devil's Elbow Track
You have some wicked turns to master before you conquer this
track. At high speed, you race against an opponent. Faster and
faster you steer your race car to be the first to complete 25
laps.

GAME 4
Devil's Elbow Track (Time Trial)
It's the race against the devil as you practice for those
competitive races. Race against the clock and try to complete
as many laps as possible in 60 seconds.

CRASH n' SCORE (r)

Score points by crashing! Each player controls one race car
with a hand-held Controller. The white square is your target.
When it appears on the playfield, race cars attempt to crash
into it. When the crash occurs, the player scores one point
and the square disappears.

The square reappears at random on another part of the
playfield. Hear the engines roar, and the CRASH when your car
collides with the opponent's car. A "BEEP" will tell you when
you score one point.

Move your car off any side of the playfield, and it will
reappear on the opposite side. For example, steer the car off
the top of the playfield and it will appear at the bottom of
the playfield. This feature is one strategy to use to reach
the square first!

Cars are color coordinated with the scores at the top of the
field. The score at the right refers to the right Controller
player; the left number show the left Controller player's
score.

GAME 5
Crash n' Score (R) I Track
In two player games, players compete for crashes with the box.
The first player to score 50 hits wins the game.

GAME 6
Crash n' Score (R) I Track (Time Trial)
The player races against the clock to score as many hits as
possible in 60 seconds. The top left number is the number of
hits; the top right number is the time keeper.

GAME 7
Crash n' Score (R) II Track
Two players move at high speeds to be the first to score 50
hits. The playfield is more complex with six treacherous
barriers.

GAME 8
Crash n' Score (R) II (Time Trial)
One player races at high speed against the clock. The player's
object? To score as many hits as possible in 60 seconds on a
playfield with six treacherous barriers.

TAG

Two persons play these games like a regular game of tag. Each
player controls one car. The car that is NOT blinking is "it."

When your car is blinking, you must avoid becoming tagged by
your opponent's car. ("it") Score one point for every second
you avoid the tag.

When the "it" car tags your race car, your car starts to
blink. Now you are "it" and must tag the blinking car.

Move your car off any side of the playfield, and it will
reappear on the opposite side. For example, steer your car off
the top of the playfield and it will reappear at the bottom of
the playfield.

The two numbers at the top of the playfield represent each
player's score. The top right score refers to the right
Controller player; the left number is the left Controller
player's score.

GAME 9
Tag- Barrier Chase Track
The first player to tally up 99 points wins the game.

GAME 10 
Tag - Motor Hunt Track
The first player to tally up 99 points on this complicated
playfield wins. The race cars move at high speed.

ICE RACE

Cars race around the icy track and compete against each other
or the clock. The ice makes steering on the track difficult. 

In tow-player games, players race against each other. The top
two numbers represent the number of laps each player has
completed. The right score refers to the right Controller
player; the left number is the left Controller player's score.

During one-player time trial games, the player uses the left
Controller to race against the clock. The top left number is
the number of laps; the top right number is the time keeper.

You'll hear the engines when they accelerate, and the CRASH
when your car crashes into the opponents car or playfield
boundaries.

GAME 11
Ice Sprint Race Track
Punch the engines on the straightaway, and be cautious on the
curves as you try to be the first to complete 25 laps.

GAME 12
Ice Sprint Track (Time Trial)
Get the feel of the track as you race against yourself and
time. Your goal? To complete as many laps as possible in 60
seconds.

GAME 13
Ice Rally Track
Your race car is moving at high speed as you maneuver those
sharp turns to beat your opponent on ice. The first player to
complete 25 laps claims victory.

GAME 14
Ice Rally Track (Time Trial)
The seconds tick away as you try to complete as many laps as
possible in 60 seconds.

C011402-11 Rev. 5                            Printed in USA
-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
