Atari 2600 Game Manual
Jr. Pac-Man

Kidding Around with Junior!

I may be young, but I'm no baby!  I'm a star just like my 
folks, Pac-Man(TM) and Ms. Pac-Man(TM).  And I've got twice 
their energy!
Come play with me!  We'll race around giant playgrounds.  
We'll chase down magic candy and run from ghostly bullies 
who'll tickle me to death if they catch me.
My playgrounds are full of challenging mazes with corners and 
alleys to hide in.  I run faster than a speeding roller skate, 
ducking behind barriers, dodging those mean bullies.  I can 
even race from one side of a playground to the other.  That's 
a lot of ground to cover!
But I've got to play a lot harder than my folks to live up to 
the Pac-Man family name.  That's why this is a whole new game!

Getting Started

1.  Insert the Jr. Pac-Man cartridge into your ATARI 2600 as 
explained in your Owner's Manual, and turn on the console.

2.  Plug a joystick into the left joystick jack.

3.  Press (Select) to choose one of four skill levels: one 
teddy bear; two teddy bears; three teddy bears; or toy candy.

4.  Press (Reset) or the joystick button to start the game.  
Following every other maze, action stops and a tune plays 
while the upcoming maze is displayed.  After a few seconds the 
game continues.  (If you don't want to pause, press the 
joystick button for immediate replay.)

5.  Use your joystick to joyride throughout the maze.  Jr. 
Pac-Man moves in the same direction you move the joystick.  
The maze scrolls when Junior moves to the top or bottom edge 
of the screen.

Playing the Game

On the playground maze, Jr. Pac-Man runs like mad, eating 
every dot in sight while trying to avoid up to four ghost 
bullies -- Inky, Blinky, Pinky, and Tim.  You start the game 
with three turns, and lose a turn every time a bully catches 
Junior.

Have Junior eat a power pill when the ghost bullies start 
closing in.  Suddenly, he's stronger than the bullies -- 
they're running from him!  Be aggressive and get them!

Watch for a toy-shaped candy that tromps across the 
playground.  It turns every dot it touches into a bigger dot 
worth more points.  But have Junior eat it before it goes too 
far -- it can destroy the power pills!

Strategy

Don't let Jr. Pac-Man eat the power pills too early.  Wait 
until the bullies gain on him, then have him tease them toward 
a pill, quickly gobble it, and immediately chase them.

Have Junior eat as many dots as he can before he east the 
power pills.  This gives him more clear paths for chasing 
bullies.

Dots worth ten points slow Jr. Pac-Man down.  Dots worth 50 
points slow him down even more.  So, when the bullies close 
in, have Junior dash into a clear path to outrun them.

Jr. Pac-Man turns corners faster than the ghost bullies.  When 
the bullies are closing in, have him make lots of direction 
changes to outrun them.

Get to know the bullies' personalities.  Each one is unique, 
and you can use that fact to your advantage.

Allow the toy candies to transform as many dots as possible 
into 50-point dots.  But have Junior eat the candies before 
they destroy the power pills.

Pay attention to game sounds, such as the tromping sound of 
toy candies.  They'll clue you to what's happening in parts 
of the maze you can't see.

Skill Levels

When you graduate to each higher level, the playground is 
faster, tougher, and even more challenging than the one before.

One Teddy Bear -- This is the easiest level, in which just one 
ghost bully chases Junior.

Two Teddy Bears -- Junior runs from two bullies.

Three Teddy Bears -- Three bullies pursue Junior.

Toy Candy -- This is the hardest level, in which Junior tries 
to outrun four bullies.

Scoring

Score points by having Jr. Pac-Man eat the bullies.  The more 
bullies he east per power pill, the more points you score.

Your score appears at the bottom center of the screen.  The 
number of turns you have left appears at the lower left.  
Teddy bears or the toy candy showing your skill level appear 
at the lower right.

Points are listed below:

First ghost ............... 200 points
Second ghost .............. 400 points
Third ghost ............... 800 points
Fourth ghost ............. 1600 points

Tricycle .................. 100 points
Kite ...................... 200 points
Drum ...................... 500 points
Balloon ................... 700 points
Train .................... 1000 points
Kitty .................... 2000 points
Root beer ................ 5000 points

Dot ........................ 10 points
Dot touched by toy candy ... 50 points
Energy pill ................ 50 points

At 15,000 points, you earn a bonus turn.

Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents 
is not allowed without the specific written permission of 
Atari Corp.

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the 
product documentation in this manual.  However, because we are 
constantly improving and updating our computer software and 
hardware, Atari Corp. is unable to guarantee the accuracy of 
printed material after the date of publication and disclaims 
liability for changes, errors, and omissions.

ATARI is a registered trademark, and 2600 is a trademark of 
Atari Cor.  Jr. Pac-Man, Ms. Pac-Man, Pac-Man, and characters 
are trademarks of Bally Midway Mfg. Co., sublicensed to Atari 
Corp. by Namco-America, Inc.

Copyright (c) 1986 Atari Corp.
Sunnyvale, CA  94086
All Rights Reserved.

Printed in Taiwan
CO19741-123/A
K.I.7. 1986

