KANGAROO
typed by HOWiE

NOTE: Always turn the console POWER switch OFF when inserting or
removing an ATARI Game Program cartridge.  This will protect the
electronic components and prolong the life of your ATARI Video
Computer System (tm) game.

GAME OBJECTIVE:
The object of the game is to score as many points as you can while
helping Mother Kangaroo rescue her precious baby.  Use your joystick
controller to guide Mother Kangaroo.  You star the game with three
lives.

During this rescue mission, Mother Kangaroo encounters many obstacles.
Push your joystick up to help her climb ladders, hop over logs, and
jump over apples; pull the joystick down to help her duck under
apples.  Help her pick bonus fruit, and ring the bell at the top of
the screen by making her hop up to touch the fruit and bell.  Push
the joystick diagonally right and left to help Mother Kangaroo take
Super Leaps across broken logs.  Press the red fire button to make
Mother Kangaroo throw punches at monkeys and apples.

GAME PLAY:
KANGAROO has two skill levels: novice and advance for one or two
players (see GAME VARIATIONS).  Game play will progress by level
with both skill levels.  Each level has three screens.  A screen
is completed when Mother Kangaroo reaches her baby.  When all three
screens are completed, the screen flashes, and you begin a more
difficult round of the same three screens.

Screen 1 - This is the easiest screen.  To capture her baby, Mother
Kangaroo must hop along tree branches and climb up ladders while
avoiding monkeys and apples.

Screen 2 - This is the most difficult screen because Mother Kangaroo
must take Super Leaps across several broken logs to reach her baby.

Screen 3 - The third screen is similar to both screen one and screen
two.  Mother Kangaroo encounters more logs and branches and ladders
for an increased challenge during her rescue mission.

To score points, Mother Kangaroo picks fruit, punches monkeys and
apples, and rescues Baby Kangaroo.

Mother Kangaroo earns extra points for picking even more fruit.  She
can ring the bell (up to three times in one screen) to replenish the
fruit.  Then she can climb up and down the screen to pick all the
fruit.

USING THE CONTROLLERS
Use one or two Joystick Controllers with this ATARI game program
cartridge.  For one-player games, plug the controller into the LEFT
CONTROLLER jack.  For two-player games, plug the second controller
into the RIGHT CONTROLLER jack.  In two-player games, the player
using the LEFT CONTROLLER starts the game.  Hold the controller with
the fire button to your upper left, toward the television screen. 
(See your owners manual for further details.)

Hop - Move the joystick right or left to make Mother Kangaroo hop
right or left.

Jump - Push the Joystick up away from you to make Mother Kangaroo
jump.

Duck - Pull the joystick down toward to you to make Mother Kangaroo
duck.

Super Leap - Push the Joystick up diagonally to the right to Super
Leap right; push it up diagonally to the left to Super Leap left. 
Continue to hold the joystick in the diagonal position for a higher
leap.

Punch - Press the red fire button and Mother Kangaroo throws a punch.

CONSOLE CONTROLS
GAME SELECT/GAME RESET SWITCHES
Press GAME SELECT to choose the game variation you want to play. 
Press GAME RESET to start a game.  You can also press the red fire
button to start or restart a new game upon completion of the previous
game.

In the novice version, four monkeys chase and throw apples at Mother
Kangaroo.  The advanced version starts at the second level with
monkeys throwing more apples at a faster speed.

DIFFICULTY SWITCHS - the RIGHT and LEFT DIFFICULTY switches are not
used in this game.

TV TYPE SWITCH - Set this switch to COLOR if you're playing on a
color television.  Set it to B-W to play the game on a black and
white television.

GAME VARIATIONS
Press GAME SELECT to chose a game variation

One Baby Kangaroo
--------------------
One-Player Novice

One Baby Kangaroo 
and One Monkey
--------------------
One-Player Advanced

Two Baby Kangaroos
--------------------
Two-Player Novice

Two Baby Kangaroos 
and Two Monkeys
--------------------
Two-Player Advanced

SCORING
During your turn, your score is displayed at the lower right side of
the screen.  The number of lives remaining is indicated with boxes at
the lower left side of the screen.

Monkeys - Punch a monkey and score 200 points.  However if a monkey
touches Mother Kangaroo, you lose a life.

Apples - Apples are dropped and thrown at Mother Kangaroo.  Punch a
falling apple and score 200 points;  Punch a thrown apple and score
100 points.  If an apple touches Mother Kangaroo, you lose a life.

Fruit - The game begins with three strawberries, each worth 100 
points.  Mother Kangaroo can score bonus points by jumping up and
picking the fruit.  When she jumps up and rings the bell, the fruit
she has picked is replaced with more valuable fruit.

     Strawberries   100 Points
     Tomatoes       200 Points
     Cherries       400 Points
     Pineapples     800 Points

One bonus life is earned every 20,000 points.

Bonus Timer - The number at the lower center of the screen is the
Bonus Timer.  It starts at 2000 points at the beginning of each turn.
The longer it takes Mother Kangaroo to rescue her baby, the more 
bonus points you lose.  After Baby Kangaroo is rescued, the remaining
bonus points are added to your score.  If the Bonus Timer runs down 
to zero, you lose a life.

HELPFUL HINTS
When a monkey moves toward you, ready to throw an apple, watch the
direction of its throwing arm.  If it winds back underhand, the apple
will be thrown low, so jump over it.  If it winds up overhand, the 
apple will be thrown high, so duck under it.  As you progress to 
higher levels, apples will be thrown mid-level, so either punch them
or jump over them.

Time your ladder climbing carefully so you can be out of the firing
range of falling apples.

Monkeys are usually most dangerous when you move away from them, so 
try to move toward them so you can punch them before they can throw 
apples.

Time your jumps carefully.  Mother Kangaroo can leap from the edge of
a branch or log, but she must land flat on her feet.  When preparing
for a Super Leap, make Mother Kangaroo walk to the end of the log 
with her toes hanging over the edge.  Then pull the joystick back and 
immediately push it up in the direction of her leap.

For a high score, climb up and down each screen until every type of
fruit is picked.


