	US GAMES
	
	M.A.D.

U.S. Games Corporation
A Subsidiary of The Quaker Oats Company
1515 Wyatt Drive
Santa Clara, California 95054


M.A.D. (Missile Attack and Defense)

Defend your future civilization's energy supply against waves of devious
attack missiles.  Your energy stations stand vulnerable...use your ground
based Photon Cannon and pit yourself against computer controlled missiles,
or, let another player guide the missiles, and do battle head to head.  Each
wave of missiles becomes more aggressive and intense.  Grabe your controller
and prepare for a furious battle.

[Screen shot of M.A.D. game: your score is up top, missiles fill the sky
portion of the screen, your Photon Cannon sits on the bottom center of the
screen, and three energy stations each are to the left and right of the cannon.]


Set-Up Instructions:

1. Connect the Atari Video Computer System or Sears Video Arcade following
the manufacturer's instructions.

2. Install left joystick control for single player, or both for two player game.

3. Insert the cartridge making certain that the power is OFF.

4. Move the POWER switch to ON.

5. Select game of your choice.

6. Push the RESET button to start the game.

7. After the game is over, a new game may be started by pressing the RESET
button.


Controls:

- Use left joystick for single player; both joysticks for two players.

- Aim your Photon Cannon by moving joystick left and right.  There are seven
firing angles.

- Shoot by pushing fire button.

- In the two player game, move cursor by moving joystick in desired
direction.  Push and hold down fire button to lock onto the missile, and
release fire button to drop missile.  Once a missile has been dropped, lock
onto another missile for dropping.


Game Variations:

Game 1   One Player:	Computer will lock onto a missile; it will turn white
before falling.
Game 2   Two Player:	Player One has red score and ground; Player Two has
green score and ground.  Each player completes the same number of rounds
(offense and defense).

Scoring:
Each missile shot down by
your Photon Cannon in waves 1 to 6  = 100 points
Each missile shot down after wave 6 = 200 points


Playing Hints:

- Single player game: Watch out for wave four when the ships come from both
sides and are all white.  You don't get a warning when they are going to
drop.  Protect yourself by firing first at the lower missiles.

- Firing tips: Only two shots can appear on screen at one time, so timing is
critical.  In early waves use first shot to help aim a more accurate second
shot.  Don't stop firing during an explosion (even if you need sunglasses!).
If a missile is heading for your Photon Cannon, wait until it is almost on
top of you before firing.  That way you can be more accurate (if you've got
the nerve).

- Two player game: Defense (firing Photon Cannon):
follow the cursor and aim slightly below it to allow for quick falling missiles.

- Two player game: Offense (locking onto missiles for dropping): if you can
successfully drop a missile on the Photon Cannon, the cannon is inoperable
for two seconds, and you have a chance to drop a missile more accurately.


Look for more U.S. Games video games wherever you buy game cartridges.  Drop
us a note and we'll be glad to add your name to our mailing list and keep
you posted on new game cartridges when they become available.

This cartridge is manufactured for the ATARI Video Computer System Model
2600 by U.S. Games.  ATARI Video Computer System, and 2600 are trademarks of
Atari, Inc.  U.S. Games is not affiliated with Atari, Inc.  Video Arcade is
a trademark of Sears, Roebuck & Co.

Copyright 1982 U.S. Games Corporation

Lafe Travis
I'm a Yosemite Sam fan; that's what I am!
Star Wars, Doctor Who, Nowhere Man, Video Games, Horror Films, FRUA, Bears,
Dragon's Lair

