Spectravideo
Video Game Cartridge

Mangia'

for thr Atari and Sears=20
Video Game Systems
Instruction Manual

"Your mother has been cooking all day
preparing your favorite pasta dish, but
then nothing is too good for her favorite!!
Now, it's only fair that you put a smile on
her face, a gleam in her eyes, and a glow
in her heart. How??? How else!!! Eat! Eat -
Mangia'! Mangia'! Come on it's good for
you!!"


Table of Contents

Content				page
----------			------
Getting Started			2
Give it a Twirk			3
Sergio and Frankie		5
Eat! Eat! (or else! or else!)	6
Scoring				7
Warranty			8



Getting Started

1. Hook up game console
2. Make sure power switch is in off position, before installing any
   cartridge
3. Insert cartridge in by starting it firmly into cartridge slot.
4. turn console on
5. GAME SELECTOR
   For 1 player
   For 2 players
6. Skill level
   You will automatically start at skill level 1 and then automatically
   advance to subsequent levels upon eliminating the prescribed
   plates of pasta
7. To start the game.
   Just press the "Game Reset" level
   To restart the game, press the lever again.
8. Use of joytsick. This is described fully in the following pages.



Give it a Twirl

Panel Indicators: When you are playing Mangia, you will see that
all necessary information is displayed on your TV screen. On top, you
will see your score adding up... it's the first really enjoyable way of
counting calories! On the bottom you will see the number of chances
you have left and the amount of pasta left (see accompanying diagram)

<screen shot>

All day long, your thoughtful Italian mama has been slaving away at
the stove, cooking up a plate of your favorite dish: Pasta! Now she's
serving it up to you in immense proportions, more than even a good,
food-loving Italian boy can handle. What do you do?

Mangia! Mangia! Eat! What else can you do? Mama loves you
dearly , and you can't break her heart by turning the pasta away. And
you can't just keep eating, because you'll burst (you really will.. see
p.7!)
Well, just in time, along comes help, in the form of Sergio the Italian
dog and Frankie the Italian cat. Before we tell you exactly how these
Sicilian pets can help you out of your predicament, though, let's first
tell you how this great game is played.

Object: The object is to score as many points as possible by getting
rid of as much of Mama's pasta as you can. The maximum score is 9999.

Action: Once the game begins, Mama automatically walks back and forth
between her stove and the table, delivering plates of pasta. The cat
randonly pops up in the window and the dog walks by from time to
time. You control all the action of the boy with your joystick.

How to Eat it Up: Each time Mama reaches the table, the number
of plates of pasta increases by one. You can't let the plates
build up. So what you do is move your joystick to the right to
pick up the plate, and then to the left to eat the pasta. Whenever=20
you take a plate of pasta from the table, the number there will be
decreased by one.

End of Game: You have four chances in Mangia. These are represented
by the boy himself plus the three faces on the lower left hand corner of =
the screen.=20
When all four chances have been used up,
the game is over.



Sergio and Frankie

In Mangia, both a dog and a cat are a man's best friend! More
specifically, they're your best friend. Quite honestly, you could
simply never get rid of all that pasta without Sergio the Dog and
Frankie the cat.

You may not know it, but Italian pets love pasta just as much as their
masters. They will be more than glad to take the handout ... but your
timing has to be just right.

First off, you can't ever let Mama know. It would hurt her feelings to
know that her little boy is "passing the pasta." So you must pitch off=20
the stuff when she's not looking. For every time you feed the dog or
cat while Mama is looking (facing you) you will be penalized.

Both Sergio and Frankie randomly appear, whenever they are hungry
(which is pretty often, since the kitchen smells so good!) To feed
Frankie when he pops up in the window, you must quickly move the
joystick to the right and then up in one smooth motion. To pitch some
pasta to Sergio, you must wait until he is in just the right position.
Then, you quickly move the joystick to the right and then down in
one smooth motion. (Note: your joystick fire button is not used in
Mangia.) For errant throws, you will be penalized, as explained
in the following pages.


Eat! Eat! (Or else! or else!)

Too much of a good thing - even as good as spaghetti -
can cause you problesm. In Mangia there are several problems you
have to worry about.
First your table cannot support too much weight...nine plates of pasta
to be exact. Should more than nine plates accumulate, the table will
collapse! You will lose once chance.

If you try to feed a pet (cat or dog) when the pet is not present or
directly in your line of fire, you will be punished.

If you try to feed a pet when Mama is facing you, you will be
punished.

In both of the above cases, the punishment is severe - three more
plates of pasta.

Further more of you let the boy eat too much, his body will grow
fatter and fatter and finally burst! If this happens you lose one
chance.

Twenty plates of pasta is the absolur maximum the boy can cram down.
You'll have warnings though. Between 13 and 18 plates of pasta consumed,
the boy will grow and change colors. Between 19 and 20 plates
consumed, he will once again grow and change to yet another color.


Scoring

Level	# of plates of	Description		# of Points		Ways of
	Pasta to Start				Scored for each		playing
						plate eaten
-------------------------------------------------------------------------=
----------
1	31		generally, the		5			Either one
2	32		higher the		6			or two
3	35		level, the 		7			players can
4	37		more quickly		8			play at any
5	40		Mama will		9			desired=20
6	42		deliver the		10			skill.
7	45		plates of 		11
8	47		pasta. Also:		12
9	49		The higher the		13
			level, the
			smaller the chance
			that the cat or
			dog will appear.


Notes:

- Level Advancing occurs only when all the plates of pasta have
  been eliminated (i.e. 31 in level 1, 32 in level 2, etc.)

- Player receives one extra playing chance for each 1000 pts scored.

Awards

0-2500 points......Chow Hound
2500-5000 points......Order of the Red-checked tablecloth
6000-7500 points......Pasta Prince
7500-9999 points......Super Sicilian gourmet

(Maximum Score is 9999)
