MASH

TO SETUP:

Set up your video computer system and left and right joystick controllers as 
instructed in your maufacturer's owner's manual.  Move the color B/W lever to the
correct setting.  Turn power off and insert the MASH game cartridge.

TO BEGIN:

Turn the power on.  Use the Game Select lever - and Difficulty Switches to choose
a play level.  Press the Game reset lever and get ready to ship out to the Korean
front!

THE OBJECTIVE:

You are Hawkeye Pierce, Chief Medical Surgeon of the 4077th MASH.  Your
responsibilities include rescuing injured men from the battlefield, performing sur-
gery in the operating room, or, in an alternative game, picking up Colonel Potter's 
skydiving medics.  You pilot your chopper low through the trees, avoiding shells
fired at you from a North Korean tank.  After picking up the medics orr wounded
and rushing them back to the hospital, the pressure really starts to get heavy.  Time
is running out for the injured men and you must operate.  You have to work fast.
You are competing with your fellow surgeons, either B.J. Hunnicut, Trapper John 
McIntyre or Frank Burns.

(screen shot)

THE CONTROLS:

Tilt the joystick forward, backward, left and right to maneuver your chopper around 
the screen.  Use the red trigger button to start games.  Once in the operating room
the joystick is used to maneuver your surgical instruments around the screen.

---

DIFFICULTY SWITCHES:

LEFT DIFFICULTY: Position A - Left joystick player begins game with 0 points.
Position B - Left joystick player begins game with 99 points.
In position B the computer (Frank Burns) will get dumber the farther he gets ahead.

RIGHT DIFFICULTY: Position A - Right joystick player begins game with 0 points.
Position B - Right joystick player begins game with 99 points.
The right joystick player is the computer in 1 player games.

(screen shot)

CHALLANGER VARIATION:

With the left difficulty switch in position A the challenger mode is entered for
1 player games.  Frank Burns will play at maximum intensity in this mode.  Also
Frank Burns will receive 8 points per second during the bonus surgery round.

Whenever your difficulty switch is in position A (1 player or 2 player games) your 
opponent will receive the point value of the shrapnel if it touches the patient
while you are removing it.

PLAY LEVELS:

There are 8 play levels (or games) in MASH.  Each game consists of sev-
eral "rounds."  A round ends when a certain number of men have been rescued.
Between each round surgery is performed in the operating room.  The exception 
is in games 7 and 8 which are devoted totally to the surgery game.  The games are
won by the first player to reach 999 points.

GAME        TITLE                                       # PLAYERS
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  1         Welcome to Korea                                1
  2         Welcome to Korea                                2
  3         Colonel Potter                                  1
  4         Colonel Potter                                  2
  5         Cease Fire                                      1
  6         Cease Fire                                      2
  7         O.R. (Operating Room)                           1
  8         O.R. (Operating Room)                           2

---

WELCOME TO KOREA

GAME 1 - In this game you, Hawkeye, must rescue more men than your computer
opponent, Frank Burns.  With your joystick, you maneauver through the forest of
trees and pick up men by touching them with your helicopter.  After rescuing 5 men
your chopper will appear overloaded and you will not be able to take on more wounded until you have dropped them off at your MASH base.  Every time you 
return to the base the point value of each man rescued is increased by 2 points.  The
maximum point value for a rescued man is 25 points.  The North Korean tank at
the bottom of the screen will chase the chopper which has the most points, and
will launch projectiles whic you must dodge.  If a chopper collides witha projec-
tile it flutters to the gorund, where it is rescued by Klinger in the ambluance.  The 
round is voer after a total of 30 men are rescued.  The airplane has no function in
this game.

Between each round a bonus round of surgery is performed in the operating room
where you must remove as many pieces of shrapnel as you can in 15 seconds.
Shrapnel must not touch the patient.  If it does, the bonus surgery round is over.  In
the normal variation (difficulty B) Frank Burns receives no points in the bonus 
surgery round.  In the challenger version (difficulty A) Frank Burns receives 
8 points per second plus the opint value of the shrapnel if it touches the patient.

(Screen shot)

(For more details on surgery see games 7 and 8.)

GAME 2 - This game is identical to game 1 except the 2 players play against each
other.  One player uses the left joystick, while the other uses the right joysitck.  In
the operating room each player gets 15 seconds to removes as many pieces of 
shrapnel as possible.  (For more details on surgery see games 7 and 8.)

COLONEL POTTER

GAME 3 - When we last left Colonel Potter he and his skydiving medics had just
jumped from a plane without parachutes.  Your mission is to rescue them before
they reach teh ground.  You maneuver your helicopter around the trees in order
to rescue more medics than your computer opponent Frank Burns.  Each man res-
cued is worth a variable number of points.  The close your chopper is to the ground
when a medic is rescued the more points you receive (points vary from 5 at the

---

top to 20 at the bottom).  The North Korean tank at the bottom of the screen will
chase the chopper who has the most points, and will launch projectiles which you
must dodge.  The round is over when a total of 40 medics have been rescued.

Between each round a bonus round of surgery is performed in the operating room.
You have 15 seconds to remove as many pieces of shrapnel as possible.  Again
Frank Burns will receive no points in the nomral version.  However he will receive
points in teh challenger variation.  (See games 7 and 8 for more details.)

CEASE FIRE

GAME 5 - The shooting has stopped but the wounded keep coming.  Playing
this game is similar to playing game 1 except that the tank has stopped launching
projectiles.  You also have smaller helicopters for ease in rescuing the injured men.

GAME 6 - This game is identical to game 5 except that 2 players compete against each
other, one using the left joystick while the other uses the right joystick.

O.R. (OPERATING ROOM)

GAME 7 - You're in the operating room where you must remove bits of shrapnel
from an injured man using your extractor.  You play against Frank Burns who
receivs 6 points per second.  Each piece of shrapnel is worth a varying unmber 
of points depending on the difficulty of its removal.  If the shrapnel touches your
patient while it is being removed your turn is ended.  Point values range from 15 to
80.  In the challanger version (left difficulty switch in position A), Frank Burns
receives the point value of any piece of shrapnel that touches the patient.

GAME 8 - This game is very similar to GAME 7 except that each player has 15 seconds 
in which to remove as many pieces of shrampen as possible.  When his turn ends,
the next player's turn starts.  And in the challenger variation (difficulty switch in
position A) your opponent receives points if the shrapnel touches the man while
it is being removed.

HINTS FROM DALLAS NORTH...

In the 'Welcome to Korea' and 'Cease Fire' game, try to plan your routes so they 
require no needless detours.  Rescue a man on one pass, and try to force your
opponent to conver as much ground as possible.  In two player versions the
player who rescues the last guy gets to start first in the operating room, a big
advantage when scores get close to 999 points.

In the operating room games, a gentle tap on the joystick will yield much better
results in moving the extractor than a brute force approach.  And any part of the
extractor can be used to remove shrapnel, which comes in handy in a few of the
tight corners.

In the Colonel Potter games quick reflexes are more important than strategy.  And
the tank stops shooting when someone is being rescued by the ambulance so
you can be more aggressive in rescuing medics during this time.  And notice that
Frank Burns' helicopter is able to fly through trees, while you must fly around them.

This advantage must be compensated for by superior strategy and intelligence.

---

NOW AVAILABLE FROM FOX VIDEO GAMES:

BANK HEIST - Fun You Can Bank On!

THE EARTH DIES SCREAMING - Beat The Aliens Or Bite The Dust!

SPACE MASTER X-7 - Blast The Hyperion Base Out Of Space!

FLASH GORDON - Heroic Rescue Beyond The Stars!

REVENGE OF TEH BEEFSTEAK TOMATOES - Once The Tomatoes
Take Over, Will We Ever Eat Ketchup!

CRYPTS OF CHAOS - Centuries Of Mystery, Hours Of Fun!

FANTASTIC VOYAGE - A Heartstopping Adventure!

ALIEN - In Your Living Room, Everyone Can Hear You Scream!

TURMOIL - A Topsy-Turvey Rapid Reflex Test!

MEGAFORCE - Where Action Speaks Louder Than Words!

DEADLY DUCK - A Fiesty Fight Between Cranky Crabs And A 
Fearless Duck!

FAST EDDIE - Fast Action That'll Keep The Whole Family Hopping!

WORM WAR I - Save The World From Hoards of Huge And Hideous 
Worms!

BEANY BOPPER - Stop The Meany Beanies Before They Stop Your
Bopper!



A Game By Dallas North
(C) 1983 Fox Video Games, Inc.
All Rights Reserved
Mash is a trademark of
Twentieth Century Fox Corporation.

Fox Video Games, Inc.
4701 Patrick Henry Dr. #9
Santa Clara, CA 95050

Printed in Taiwan

-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------


