Midnight Magic      Atari 2600 Game Manual
 
GO FULL TILT!!
 
Getting Started
 
1.  Insert the Midnight Magic cartridge into your ATARI 2600 as explained
in your Owner's Manual, and turn on your console.
 
2.  Plug a joystick into the left joystick jack for one player, and
another into the right joystick jack for two players.
 
3.  Press [Select] to choose a one- or two- player game.
 
4.  Press [Reset] or either joystick button to start the game.
 
Playing the Game
 
    Pull the joystick handle towards you and press the joystick button to
launch balls.  Move the handle left to activate the left flippers; right
to activate the right flippers; back to activate both flippers at the same
time.
 
Strategy
 
    First shoot for the target with the arrow to light the bumpers and
activate the kickers and center post.  Hit all five drop targets to
increase the score multiplier.  When the score multiplier is on, go for
the top rollovers to get an extra ball.
 
Difficulty Levels
 
SETTING A - The center post and kickers must be activated by hitting the
target with the arrow.
 
SETTING B - The center post and kickers are always on.
 
Scoring
 
    Score points by hitting the targets and bumpers.  When the score
multiplier is on, all scores are multiplied by the number shown.
    The five drop-targets at the top of the screen are worth 100 points
each.  Hitting a target when the arrow is pointed at it is worth 3000
points.  It also lights the bumpers, brings up the center post, and turns
on the kickers.  Hitting all five targets is worth 5000 points and
increases the score multiplier.
     Bumpers are worth 100 points each.  When lit, they are worth 1000 points.
     Rollovers on the top right and left are worth 500 points.  When the
score multiplier is on, hitting a rollover earns you an extra ball.
     The two targets above the top flippers are worth 100 points each.
     The spinner is worth 10 points each spin.  Each spin moves the
drop-target arrow and bottom rollover lights.
     Bottom lanes are worth 500 points when lit.  When the kickers are
activated in the outside lanes, they kick the ball back into play, earning
you 10 points.
     Each bounce on the walls above the bottom flippers earns you 25 points.
     Each time the ball rolls over the white area beside the bottom
flippers you earn 10 points.




