MINIATURE GOLF

GAME PROGRAM(TM)
INSTRUCTIONS

Model CX2626

ATARI(R)
(W) A Warner Communications Company

ATARI, INC., Consumer Division
1195 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086

(C) 1979 ATARI, INC. C011402-2-6

Use your Joystick Controllers with this Game Program(TM).  Be sure the
controllers are firmly connected to your Video Computer System(TM).  Hold
the controller with the red button to your upper left toward the television
screen.  Use the Left Joystick for one-player games.  See Section 3 of your
owners manual for further details.

Note: To prolong the life and protect the electronic components of your
Atari(R) Video Computer System, the console unit should be "off" when inserting
or removing a Game Program.

HOW TO PLAY

Your sense of timing and your perceptiveness in judging distance are about to
be fine-tuned!  This exciting video game simulates an actual "Miniature Golf"
course, complete with moving obstacles.

There are nine "holes" in which to hit the ball into the "cup".  Each time
you hit the ball it is called a "stroke."  Although the number of strokes you
take to hit the ball into the cup is unlimited, each hole has a designated
"par."  Par represents the number of strokes you are ideally supposed to take
to complete the hole.

CONSOLE CONTROLS

To select a game depress the game select switch for a one or a two-player
game.  A 1 will appear in the upper left corner of the screen for a one-player
game; a 2 will appear for a two-player game.

To begin the game depress the game reset switch.

USING THE CONTROLLER

Use your Joytick Controller to position the club.  Press the red button on the
Joystick to release the club and hit the ball.

Note: The club actually covers the ball at the beginning of each hole.  Your
first step therefore is to move the club into a hitting position away from the
ball.  The farther away you move the club, the longer the ball rolls or travels
when hit.

To help you position the club more accurately, it moves at a slower speed when
travelling at a close distance to the ball.

Positioning Your Club

* Push the Joystick forward to move the club toward the top of the TV screen.
* Pull the Joystick back or toward you to move the club down or toward the
  bottom of the screen.
* Push the Joystick to the left to move the club to the left.
* Push the Joystick to the right to move the club to the right.

Direction of Travel

After being struck, the ball travels along the same line of trajectory
already established by the club.

Note: You may position the club ANYWHERE on the playfield (regardless of
course boundaries), before releasing it to hit the ball.  Remember however,
that the ball must travel around all boundaries, including moving obstacles.

GAME 1 is for one player only.  At the beginning of each hole, before the first
stroke, the number for that hole is displayed in the upper left corner of the
screen.  The par for that hole is shown at the upper right corner of the
screen.  After the first stroke, the player's running score replaces the hole
number.  A 0 replaces the par until the beginning of the next hole.

GAME 2 is for two players.  The left player goes first.  After the first stroke
by each player, the respective scores are displayed at the top of the screen
until the hole is completed.  These score totals replace the hole number and
the par, as in GAME 1.

Note: Players must hit the ball into the cup to complete the hole, before the
game progresses to the next hole or the next player's turn.

SCORING

Each time you hit the ball the computer records one stroke against you.  Your
running score is displayed at the top of the screen.  Ideally, your goal is to
match or beat the par for each hole.  The lower your score the better.

The score for the left player is displayed at the top left of the screen; the
score for the right player is displayed on the top right of the screen.

HANDICAP (Difficulty Switches)

The ball travels a much longer distance when the difficulty switch is in the
"a" position. (Use the left difficulty switch for one-player games.)

Printed in USA Rev. 1

This document typed by gchance@ecst.csuchico.edu.
