US Games

VC2004

PICNIC

U.S. Games Corporation
A Subsidiary of The Quaker Oats Company
1515 Wyatt Drive
Santa Clara, California 95054


Picnic

   Picnic is a one or two player, full color game designed to be
played on the Atari Video Computer System or the Sears Video Arcade.
   You call this a picnic!!?? Just when you are ready to sit down
and eat your juicy cheeseburgers, a swarm of nasty bugs comes along
intent on beating you to the munch. They start eating and you
start swatting, and the battle has begun. It's a good thing you
brought along your bug zapping trap. Now, swat those critters into
the trap, and just maybe there will be something left for you to
eat for lunch.


Set-Up Instructions:

 1. Connect the Atari Video Computer System or Sears Video Arcade
    following manufacturer's instructions.
 2. Install the paddle controller in the left controller outlet.
 3. Insert the cartridge - making sure the power is OFF.
 4. Move the POWER switch to ON.
 5. Difficulty switches:
    Right difficulty switch Position A = Large swatter
                            Position B = Small swatter
 6. Select the game of your choice.
 7. Start game by pushing fire button.
 8. Each wave of bugs is followed by a "Super Bug." If you can
    successfully swat him into your trap, you get a moment's rest.
    Start the next attack by pushing your fire button.
 9. Push the reset switch to start a new game any time.
10. After the game is over, a new game can be started by pressing
    the fire button.


Controls:

* Turn paddle controller clockwise or counterclockwise to maneuver
  swatter.
* Push fire button to swat!


Game Variations:

Game 1  Single player, beginner skill level
Game 2  Single player, intermediate skill level
Game 3  Single player, advanced skill level
Game 4  Two player, beginner skill level
Game 5  Two player, intermediate skill level
Game 6  Two player, advanced skill level

Note: The two player variations use the left paddle controller only,
      which can be passed back and forth when turns change. Each
      player's turn is indicated by different colored scores on the
      screen. Scores of each player are displayed, flashing
      alternately when the game is over.


Scoring:

* Swatting a bug               = 10 points
* Swatting a bug into trap     = 20 points
* Swatting Super Bug           = 40 points
* Swatting Super Bug into trap = 1000 points


Playing Hints:

* For starters, you should know some basic (sneaky) attributes of the
  game; if you haven't already noticed, the bugs can shoot through
  your paddle and eat your burgers unless you activate it by pressing
  the "fire" (or "swat" in this case) button at the exact time the
  bug extends his needlelike tongue. Also, note that you can't hold
  the paddle in swatting position - as it returns to its normal
  position a split second after activation. This calls for exact
  timing on the swat! Anticipate the bug's hunger and get him before
  he eats your lunch!
* The best swatting position is near the center, between trap and
  burgers on either side. Even though this area puts the most bugs
  in the jar, you are trying to save your burgers! Therefore, it is
  good strategy, nay - necessity - to swat bugs even if you don't
  trap them; otherwise, you may really be out to lunch without
  the food!
* Beware of "Super Bug" as he comes on screen immediately after you
  complete a wave. He can and will shoot from high altitudes, so home
  in on him early. When he gets into feeding position, swat away at
  that two-tongued devil.
* Now, stay cool, don't get bugged, and save those burgers before
  your Picnic turns into a bugfest!!


Look for more U.S. Games video games wherever you buy game cartridges.
Drop us a note and we'll be glad to add your name to our mailing list
and keep you posted on new game cartridges when they become available.

