*** Pitfall! (1 player) ***

Activision
Pitfall!
Instructions

Picture this!  You are deep in the recesses of a forbidden jungle--an
unforgiving place few explorers ever survive.  But you've got courage, because
you're with Pitfall Harry, the world famous jungle explorer and fortune hunter
extraordinaire.  The lure of hidden treasure draws you and Harry deeper and
deeper into the bush.  But, being a great explorer, you wouldn't think of
starting such a difficult journey without reading this manual first--very
carefully.

PITFALL! BASICS

The object of Pitfall! is to guide Harry through a maze of jungle scenes,
jumping over or avoiding many deadly dangers, and helping Harry grab the most
treasures in the shortest possible time.

1.  Hook up your video game system.  Follow manufacturer's instructions.

2.  With power OFF, plug in game cartridge.

3.  Turn power ON.  If no picture appears, check connection of your game
    system to TV, then repeat steps 1-3.

4.  Plus in left Joystick Controller.  It's the only one you'll need.  When
    playing, hold Joystick with red button in the upper left position.

5.  Difficulty switches and the game select switch are not used in Pitfall!
    Each game is many games in one, with many difficulties to overcome.

6.  To start, press game reset.  Action begins as soon as you move Joystick.

7.  USE OF JOYSTICK CONTROLLER

    --To run left or right...move joystick left or right.

    --To jump over dangers...press the red button while running to the
      right or the left.

    --To climb up or down ladders...push Joystick up to climb, pull down to
      descend.

    --To grab a swinging vine...press the red button while running to the right
      or to the left.

    --To let go of the vine...pull down on Joystick at the end of a swing.

    --To collect a Treasure...just run right to it.

8.  SCORING.  You start each adventure with 2000 points.  Some misfortunes will
    cause a deduction of points.  Should you fall down a hole by accident, you
    will lose 100 points.  Rolling logs will also cause point loss depending on
    how long contact is made with them.

    Each treasure you find will add points to your score.  There are eight of
    each type of treasure in the entire game, 32 in all, for a total of 112,000
    points.  A perfect score is 114,000 points (reached by collecting all
    treasures. without losing any points by falling down holes or tripping on
    logs).

    DIAMOND RING = 5000 POINTS

    GOLD BAR = 4000 POINTS

    SILVER BAR = 3000 POINTS

    MONEY BAG = 2000 POINTS

9.  TIME.  You have 20 minutes to complete each adventure.  Harry has 3 lives
    in each game (See "The Hazards of Pitfall!") Game is over when Harry is
    "lost" for the third time or when time runs out.

SPECIAL FEATURES OF PITFALL! BY ACTIVISION

There are 255 jungle scenes through which Harry can travel.  Each scene covered
underground is equivalent to three on the surface.  Pitfall! is a circular
maze, which means that, if Harry safely goes through all 255 different scenes,
he will come back to the starting point.  In the course of that journey, Harry
will also encounter all 32 treasures.

  THE HAZARDS OF PITFALL!

    Pitfall Harry's Jungle Adventure is fraught with danger.  Some hazards will
    slow him down and rob you of points, while others will stop him cold in his
    tracks.  The "lesser" hazards are the open holes in the ground and rolling
    logs (See "Scoring") The catastrophic hazards are the scorpions, fires,
    cobra rattlers, crocodiles, swamps, quicksand and tar pits.  These
    obstacles will not cost you points, BUT they will cost one of Harry's 3
    lives.

GETTING THE FEEL OF PITFALL! BY ACTIVISION

You cannot excell at Pitfall! without acquiring a variety of skills.  The most
important is "jumping."  You'll need to use both the red button AND Joystick at
the same time in order to make Harry jump up to a swinging vine.  Jumping is
also important when you leap atop crocodile heads while crossing the swamp OR
when you hurdle over logs, holes, scorpions, fires and snakes.  Special care
should be taken when you jump scorpions; the margin for error is less.

To practice your skills, try running to the right.  Learn to jump the rolling
logs and the holes in the ground first, then tackle the tougher skills of
swinging on the vine and jumping over the crocodile pits.  Whenever Harry is
lost, you'll get another chance to try the hazard again, since the
"replacement" Harry appears on the left side of the screen.

JOIN PITFALL HARRY'S EXPLORERS' CLUB

If you score 20,000 points (or more) on any one of your adventures with Harry,
you will be eligible to join this prestigious orginization.  Just send us a
picture of your TV screen showing your score, and we'll present you with a
special Explorers' Club membership emblem.

HOW TO SEEK YOUR FORTUNE WITH PITFALL HARRY

Tips from David Crane, designer of Pitfall!

(David Crane is a Senior Designer at Activision.  He also designed Dragster,
Fishing Derby, Laser Blast, Freeway and Grand Prix)

"As you set off on your first adventure with Harry, you'll notice two important
features:  that the logs always roll from right to left, and that the
"replacement" Harrys (after Harry loses a life) drop from the trees on the left
side of the screen.  So, to minimize the number of rolling logs to be jumped
and the catastrophic hazards to be re-tried, simply run to the left.

"Pitfall Harry's trip must be made through a maze of surface and underground
passages through the jungle.  To capture all 32 treasures in under twenty
minutes, Harry will have to use some of the underground passages.  I'd suggest
that you make a map of the terrain each time you play.  Knowing the jungle
and planning the best route to all treasures is the only way to insure success
time after time.

"Until you get really skilled at making Harry jump from croc to croc, you might
wait until the crocodiles' jaws are closed, jump to the top of the first croc's
head, then wait for the laws to open and close again before jumping to the next
one.  Soon you'll be skipping across crocs like they were stepping stones in a
stream.

"If you can find any writing materials deep in the jungle, drop me a line.  I'd
love to hear how you and Harry are getting along."

David Crane



-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
