SHORT-ORDER SAM'S FAMOUS FAST-FOOD COOKBOOK

ACTIVISION (R)


COOKING BASICS

Business is booming at "The Grille". Hamburger orders are just pouring in.
But back in the Assembly Room, the Food Dispenser is pouring out condiments
everywhere. Help Short-Order Sam fill each order with the proper combination
of tomatoes, onions, lettuce and cheese. And don't forget the bun! Then,
rush the completed orders to the Wrapping Room fast. Alright cooks, grab
your spatulas!

1.      Insert game cartridge into your video game console with power OFF.
        Then, turn power ON.

2.      Plug in Joystick Controller(s). Solo players use left Joystick.

3.      Select game variation by pressing the game select switch. You have
        less time to complete each order in the higher game variations.
        Games 1, 3, 5, 7 -- One player.
        Games 2, 4, 6, 8 -- Two players taking turns.

4.      Difficulty Switches
        Left Difficulty Switch
                A: Plays music only between waves.
                B: Plays music continuously.
        Right Difficulty Switch is not used.

5.      The Joystick Controller is held with the red button in the upper
        left position.

        To move Sam up, down, left and right, move the joystick in that
        direction.

        Press and hold the red button down to reject unwanted condiments.

        Press the red button to drop completed hamburgers into the wrapping
        chute.


{screen shot of "ASSEMBLY ROOM", pointing out: OPEN-FLAME OVEN,
PERFORMANCE RATING, SCORE, CONVEYOR BELT, SHORT-ORDER SAM, HAMBURGER,
FOOD DISPENSER, ELECTRONIC ORDER BOARD}

6.      To begin the game, press the game reset switch.

7.      Performance Rating. You begin with 50 performance points. You can
        add or lose performance points depending on your efficiency as a
        cook.

        You earn 10 performance points each time:
                Your score increases 10,000 points. The maximum performance
                rating is 99 points.

        You lose 1 performance point each time:
                Any condiment, is wasted, smashing against Short-Order Sam
                or the conveyor belt.

                You place the same type of condiment on any hamburger more
                than once.

        You lose 5 performance points each time:
                You drop a hamburger into the wrong wrapping chute.

                You miss the wrapping chute when you drop the hamburger.

        You lose 10 performance points each time:
                A hamburger falls off the end of the conveyor belt.

8.      Scoring. Each time you catch a condiment you score 5 points. You
        score 10 points for placing any type of condiment on any hamburger
        for the first time. 100 points are awarded each time you drop a
        completed hamburger into the correct wrapping chute. Efficiency Bonus
        Points and Burger Bonus Points reward you and boost your score at the
        end of each wave.

9.      End of Game. The game ends when your Performance Rating drops to zero.

Note to owners of Sears Tele-Games (R) Video Arcade (TM). Difficulty is
called skill, and A is expert, B is novice.

{screen shot "WRAPPING ROOM", pointing out: WRAPPED AND SACKED HAMBURGER,
WRAPPING AND SACKING MACHINE}


AUTOMATED FOOD SERVICES SILVER KITCHEN

The Automated Food Services Silver Kitchen occupies two rooms in the back
of "The Grille". Hamburgers are cooked and orders are filled in the
Assembly Room. Completed hamburgers are wrapped and sacked in the
Wrapping Room.


ASSEMBLY ROOM

Open-flame oven and conveyor belt. Hamburger patties char broil over the
open-flame oven and topples onto the bottom half of a bun. The hamburgers
continue along the conveyor belt.

Food Dispenser. Big juicy tomatoes, eight-pound onions, crisp heads of
lettuce and squares of cheese fly out of the Food Dispenser one at a time,
but hardly ever in the right order. The dispenser throws out the top half
of the bun when the proper combination of condiments are placed on a
hamburger.

Electronic Order Board. A maximum of three orders appear on the
Electronic Order Board at any one time. Each order is color-coded: red,
green or blue. A check registers under the condiments needed to fill each
order.


WRAPPING ROOM

Wrapping and Sacking Machine. Wrapping and Sacking Machine is equipped with
three separate color-coded automatic wrappers. The colors are red, green
and blue, corresponding to those on the Electronic Order Board. Completed
orders are wrapped and sacked one at a time.


MAKING BETTER BURGERS

Catching ingredients. Flying condiments must collide with Sam's rather
rotund stomach -- head-on, left or right sides -- to be caught. When they
hit him anywhere else, splat!

Rejecting ingredients. When you don't want a condiment, press the red
button and the condiments will bounce off Sam's stomach. None of the
orders ever require any condiment more than once.

Building burgers. Condiments are placed one at a time on the burgers.
Touch the burger with the ingredient to place the ingredient on it. When
every ingredient needed has been placed on a burger, the color bar on
the Electronic Order Board corresponding to that order flashes.

Wrapping burgers. To complete the order, rush Sam to the bottom of the
Assembly Room and enter the Wrapping Room. Drop the hamburger into the
wrapping chute that is the same color as the flashing bar on the
Electronic Order Board.


JOIN ACTIVISION'S "SHORT-ORDER SQUAD"

Filling orders can really run you ragged, especially at "The Grille". But
if you score 45,000 points or more, then we think the cook deserves a round
of applause. Stand up and become a bona-fide member of the Activision
"Short-Order Squad".

Just sandwich a snapshot of your savory score in an envelope, along with
your name and address, and send it to us. We'll be delighted to send you
the "Short-Order Squad" emblem shown below.

Be sure to write the name "PRESSURE COOKER" and your score on the bottom
corner of the envelope.
                  

HAMBURGER HERITAGE

Most Americans eat many, many hamburgers each year. But did you know that
the name "hamburger" comes from "Hamburg steak" which was a marinated meat
dish served in 1801 England? Scholars that study the origins and evolution
of food are called Food Historian. Let's see how much you know about the
history of the hamburger.

Q.      The first hamburger was served in American in what year?
A.      In 1900, in New Haven, Connecticut, Louis Lassen served the first
        hamburger between two slices of toast at his lunch wagon.

Q.      When was the first hamburger served between a bun?
A.      In 1904, at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition held in St. Louis.

Q.      When was the first cheese burger served in America?
A.      In Los Angeles in 1929.

Q.      Was the Hamburg steak ever prescribed as medicine?
A.      The answer is yes. An English doctor named J. H. Salisbury prescribed
        the "Salisbury Steak" to his patients.

Q.      Were hamburgers ever inflated in an attempt to raise the Titanic?
A.      The answer is no.


COOKING UNDER PRESSURE

Tips from Garry Kitchen, designer of Pressure Cooker (TM).

Garry Kitchen is a Senior Designer at Activision. In addition to
Pressure Cooker (TM), Garry designed the best-selling hit,
Keystone Kapers (TM). Garry is a dynamite ping-ponger and, of course,
loves to eat hamburgers.

"The Automated Food Services Silver Kitchen waits for no cook. Of course,
neither do customers. Here are some tips I use to keep the customers happy
and take some pressure off myself.

"First of all, keep moving. The open-flame oven never stops cooking, so you
never have time to just stand around. Run to the conveyor belt and place
the condiment on the hamburger. After dropping a hamburger into a wrapping
chute, hurry back to the Assembly Room. Don't waste time watching the order
fall into the sack.

"Also, it is important to remember that the Food Dispenser only throws out
one condiment at a time. So, if there is one in particular that you need,
then move closer to the dispenser and reject the ones that you don't need.
It'll really speed things up, and you'll get the condiment that you need
sooner.

"Lastly, there will be times when you catch a condiment that you don't want.
When that happens, place it on the hamburger at the top of the conveyor belt
and hope the next order will need it. But more importantly, try not to catch
any useless condiments.

"When it's closing time at 'The Grille', and all the customers have gone
home, drop me a line. I'd love to know how your shift went."

{Color photo and signature of Garry Kitchen}


Let us get to know you! If you have questions or comments about our games
or clubs, or want to be added to our mailing list, drop us a note or call
the "Game Hotline" toll-free at (800) 633-GAME. In California please call
(415) 940-6044/5.


ACTIVISION (R)

Activision, Inc., Drawer No. 7287
Mountain View, CA 94039

Atari (R), 2600 (TM) and Video Computer System (TM) are trademarks of
ATARI, Inc.

Tele-Games (R) and Video Arcade (TM) are trademarks of Sears, Roebuck & Co.

(C) 1983 Activision AZ-032-03 Printed in U.S.A.

-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
