U.S. Games 

Raft Rider

VC2006

Raft Rider is a single player, full color game
designed to be played on the Atari Video Computer
System or the Sears Video Arcade.
White Water everywhere! And hidden in the strong
current are any number of dangers lying in wait
to capsize your log raft. Your mission is to make 
your way downstream as far as possible, avoiding 
treacherous rocks, feisty moose, and sections of 
tree which have been cut down by a pesky beaver.
Skillful maneuvering is not without rewards, however,
because there are also gold nuggets appearing in the
river, which, when touched, can be accumulated to
extend your trek into the wilderness.
So put on your coonskin cap, get on your raft, and
ride that white water to glorious high scores! Go
ahead, get your feet wet, just try to keep the rest
of you dry!

(screen shot)

Set-Up Instructions

1. Connect the Atari Video Computer System or
Sears Video Arcade following manufacturer's
instructions.

2. Install left joystick controller.

3. Insert the cartridge  - making sure the power 
is off.

4. Move the power switch to on.

5. Select difficulty level:
Left Difficulty Switch:
	Position A - for faster increase in river current
	and advancement of Raft Rider downstream (to right
	of screen), which cuts down available reaction
	time.
	Position B - for slower river current.
Right Difficulty Switch:
	Position A - causes moose to move upstream quickly.
	Position B - moose is standing still in river.
6. Push Game Reset switch to start game.

Controls:

Move joystick up or down to cause fast to move back and forth
across river. After moving the pole up or down, you must
release the joystick to allow the poling acting to take place.
If you wish to move only sligtly to one side, quickly tap the
joystick to the left during the raft's arc so the pole is to
the back. This will stop the turning and head the raft
downstream again.

The fire button is not used in Raft Rider.

To collect gold nuggests, position your raft in front
of the rock's pathway as early as possible. Make the
fine tuned adjustments in position as described above
so that your pole, when extended forward, is in line
to touch the rock. If successful, a money bag will appear
at the bottom left of your screen. Three bags will buy you
a new raft.

Scoring:

Each segment of river traveled earns you 125 points. 
The score (bottom center) will continue to increase
as long as you continue down the river. The game
starts with three chances available (one Raft Rider
is on the river, and two rafts at lower right).
When a raft is lost, it is automatically replaced
by reserves - if available.

Collecting three gold nuggets (illustrated as money
bags in the lower left of the screen), will buy you
an extra chance to go on once you have lost all your
rafts. The maximum number of chances available at 
any one time is four: One represted by the Raft Rider
on the river, and the other three represented by the 
three rafts at the bottom right of the screen.

Playing Hints:

- Stay relatively close to the center of the river
whenever possible. It allows you to reach gold nuggets
and open passages faster with less distance to travel.

- Limit movement back and forth across the river,
since this causes your raft to move further downstream,
making it more difficult to react to... CRASH!
(Whoops) oncoming obstacles.

- Gather gold nuggets early in the game - especially
in the faster moving river version. It takes a keen
touch to collect them at "fast water" speeds, but keep
your coonskin cap on and aim that pole.

- Gathering gold nuggets is a wilderness skill that takes
grit, determination, and a keen eye. Better to aim
too low than too high - you'll find out why!

- After picking up a gold nugget, be ready to make your
next move, but not too soon, or you'll miss it
(or even worse, hit it.)

- Moose: Don't touch these guys with even a ten-foot
pole! Steer clear of their antlers, or you will be
swallowing tadpoles.

- When the beaver runs across the screen, be alert for the
crashing sound warning you of impending danger. He just 
chopped down a piece of tree that can land anywhere
in the river.

- As speed increases, plan ahead for unforeseen accidents.
After you drift past an obstacle(s), pole into line with them.
Then slalom down the river into wilderness folklore.


copyright 1982 U.S. Games Corp.
