	R A M P A G E
	For the Atari 2600
	Activision

Rampage was reprogrammed for the Atari 2600 by Bobco.
Produced by Activision by Tom Sloper.
Product Management by John Crompton.
Product Testing by Steve Imes and Larry Weissenborn.

For a recorded message about our newest software, call 415-329-7699.
For technical help, call Product Support between 9:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.
Pacific time Monday through Friday, 415-329-7699.

If you have a modem, you can contact Activision through our electronic
Product Support Bulletin Board System: 415-329-7684.

For information about our products, write to:
	Product Support
	Activision
	P.O. Box 3048
	Menlo Park, CA 94025

For the best service, be sure to note the subject of your inquiry on the
outside of the envelope.

	COPYING PROHIBITED
	This software is copyrighted and all rights are reserved by Activision.
The distribution and sale of this product are intended for the use of the
original purchaser only and for use only on the computer system specified.
Copying, duplicating, selling, or otherwise distributing this product
without the expressed written permission of Activision are violation of U.S.
Copyright Law and are hereby expressly forbidden.

Copyright 1989 Activision.  All rights reserved.

RAMPAGE and Bally Midway Mfg. Co. All rights reserved.  Used under
authorization.

Atari is a registered trademark and Atari 2600 and 7800 are trademarks of
Atari Corp.



	R A M P A G E

Partners in Crime
You and your buddy are ready for a little mass destruction.  You'll demolish
buildings, grab and chomp horrified humans, and flatten puny helicopters and
other antagonists who try to stop you.

But you won't stop at just one town.  RAMPAGE has 85 cities for you to
totally tr ash.  And you can put together one riotous wrecking crew from the
likes of George the Ape, Lizzie the Lizard, and Ralph the Wolf.

Getting Started
1.	Connect up your video game system according to the manufacturer's
instructions.
2.	Plug in your joysticks.  For a one-player game, use the left joystick.
3.	With the power OFF, insert the RAMPAGE cartridge.
4.	Turn the power ON.  The RAMPAGE title screen will appear.  Press your
joystick button or the SELECT button to go to the Monster Selection Screen.

Selecting Your Wrecking Crew
At the Monster Selection Screen, move the joystick up or down to highlight
the name of your favorite monster, then press the joystick button once to
select that monster.  In a two-player game, the second player than selects
one of the remaining monsters using the same procedure.

Once your monster has been selected, press the joystick button a second time
to start a one-player game.  In a two-player game, the game will start
immediately after the second monster has been selected.

Each player begins the game with three lives.

Trashing Cities
You can destroy as many as 85 North American cities.  Your goal is to
demolish every building in each city wile trying to avoid enemy fire.

As you CLIMB a building, you'll PUNCH holes in the walls and GRAB and CHOMP
people and other delectables.  Keep an eye out for helicopters, trolleys,
boats, police care,s and tanks.  A good PUNCH will lay 'em out cold.

Stalking Through A City
To WALK right or left, move the joystick in the direction you want to move.

Scaling Skyscrapers
To CLIMB a building, move RIGHT or LEFT to approach it, then move the
joystick UP to climb.

Punching
To PUNCH, hold the joystick in the direction you want to punch, then press
the joystick button.

Chomping
Whenever you PUNCH certain enemies or innocent bystanders, you'll
automatically GOBBLE them up.  Keep in mind that soldiers and civilians that
appear inside buildings can be eaten only if they're a different color from
that of your monster.

Jumping
To JUMP, simply press the joystick button with the joystick centered.


Your Energy Level
The DAMAGE BAR directly under your score lets you kown how you're doing.

If you run out of energy completely, you'll automaticall turn into a measly
human and lose one of your lives.  If you have any lives remaining, the
RAMPAGE Blimp will deliver your backup monster.


KEEPING SCORE
Action Item						Points Awarded
Punching a Building					   50
Eating a Pedestrian or Soldier		   50
Punching Another Monster				  250
Punching a Tank					  250
Punching a Police Car				  250
Punching a Pickup Truck				  250
Punching a Trolley or Boat			  250
Eating a TV (when it's turned off)		  500
Grabbing Money						  500
Eating Flowers						  500
Punching a Helicopter				  750
Punching a Sign					 1000
Eating a Transformed Monster			 1000

You earn an extra life for every 10,000 points you score.


Playing Tips
-	Try to eat as much food as possible to keep up your energy level.  But
beware!  Some delectables -- like cactus, toasters, bottles of poison, and
TVs (when turned on) -- may give you a bad case of indigestion.  You'll soon
learn that flickering objects, in general, can give you one bad bellyache.
-	If you're in a hurry, JUMPING is much faster than WALKING.
-	To avoid enemy fire from police cars and tanks, try to position your
monster behind each such vehicle and then destroy it with a powerful punch.
-	You'll need to climb on top of the tallest building in order to punch a
helicopter.
-	In a two-player game, punch the other player's monster to reduce his
remaining strength, as indicated by his DAMAGE BAR.  If he's transformed
into a helpless human, gobble him up to gain extra strength and bonus points.




