               SCUBA DIVER

The Scuba Diver game has two levels:

1.  Hunting Fish
2.  Searching for treasure.

Set the speed level according to your ability:

1.  Fish         - Normal Speed
    Sea Monster  - Normal Speed
2.  Fish         - High Speed
    Sea Monster  - Normal Speed
3.  Fish         - Normal Speed
    Sea Monster  - High Speed
4.  Fish         - High Speed
    Sea Monster  - High Speed

      After you turn on the power you will
immediately hear the background music. Please
select the speed level by using the selection
switch, if you do not choose a speed selection, it
will automatically be in the 1st speed, then push
the reset switch to start the game. The scuba
diver who sits in the boat is controlled by moving
the joy stick. When the fish are not beneath the
diver, it is safe for him to jump into the water. (Use
the red button of the joystick.) If you choose the
wrong time for diving, the diver will be caught by
the fish. (You have a total of 4 divers.) The number
of remaining divers appears in the bottom left
hand corner. The score appears in the middle at
the bottom.

      The diver must reach a certain depth before
you can control him and safely move in any
direction. (In the beginning the safest place is
near the surface.) When you are ready, have the
diver descend and shoot the fish one by one using
the firing button of the joy stick. While the diver is
under the water, the score will disappear. In its
place the 60 second oxygen supply for each diver
will be shown.

      As the diver is under the water, the time will
reduce second by second. The diver must return
to the boat before the oxygen supply is used up.
This is done by entering the center bottom of the
boat. When he jumps in again, he has an
additional 60 seconds. However, if he gets caught
by a fish before he can return safely to the boat,
you will not score any points. When he safely
returns, your score will be shown instead of the
oxygen supply.

Scoring:
      Each fish harpooned is worth 500 points.

      You can harpoon as many fish as you like,
but watch the oxygen supply. Also, if you miss a
fish, then the diver can not be moved until the
harpoon returns to the diver.

Level Two:
      To get to level two you must first harpoon all
the fish showing in the first level, and then
immediately enter the sunken ship (lower center
screen) downward to the bottom before another
fish appears. When you enter the sunken ship, a
new game will appear on the screen. You are now
inside the ship searching for treasure. (Caution:
You still must watch your oxygen supply from
level one still being displayed.)

      The walls of the sunken ship are very stickly. [sic]
If the diver hits the wall, you have to move the joy
stick very hard to release him, or push the firing
button to release. If he hits the wall too hard, he
cannot escape no matter how hard you move the
joy stick.

      Inside the sunken ship you must beware of
the three sea monsters. The diver cannot destroy
the sea monsters, he can only swim to avoid
them. The sea monsters protect the treasure
chests and can go through the walls of the ship,
while the diver cannot. You will notice some
narrow openings that the diver can go through to
escape the sea monsters. For the diver to enter
these passages, you must push the firing button
of the joy stick and move the joy stick at the same
time. All you need to do to retrieve the treasure
chests is have the diver touch the treasure chest.

Scorings: [sic]
1.  If you get one treasure chest you score 500
    points.
2.  If you get two treasure chests during the same
    dive you get 1,500 points.
3.  If you get three treasure chests during the
    same dive you get 11,500 points.

      Remember, you must watch your oxygen
supply. After retrieving a treasure chest or if your
oxygen supply is too low, you will need to return
to level one. This is done by having the diver go to
the surface of the water. Beware, there will be
three fish waiting for you.

     Whenever the game is finished, you have the
background music again.

 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

These are the instructions to Panda Scuba Diver,
originally Sancho Skin diver (the Panda version
shows (c) 1983 Sancho on the screen), and also
released as Froggo Sea Hunt.

The label on the Panda version is red, 3/4" by
3", stuck on the end of a Telesys-style cartridge,
with a panda on the left in white, and white
lettering that reads:

             S C U B A  D I V E R
                   No. 104
             (c) 1983 PANDA INC.

