SKY DIVER(TM)

GAME PROGRAM(TM)
INSTRUCTIONS

Model CX2629

ATARI(R)
(W) A Warner Communications Company

ATARI, INC., Consumer Division
1195 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086

(C) 1979 ATARI, INC.    C011402-29

Use your Joystick Controllers with this Game Program(TM).  Be sure the
controllers are firmly connected to your Video Computer System(TM).  Hold
the controllers with the red button to your upper left toward the television
screen.  See Section 3 of your owners manual for further details.

Note: The console unit should be off when inserting or removing a Game
Program.  This will protect the electronic components and prolong the life
of your Atari(R) Video Computer System.

HOW TO PLAY

Your initial task is to guide the Sky Diver(TM) onto the landing pad.  Your
ultimate task is to score more points than your opponent.  To hit the landing
pad and score points you must:

* Release the Sky Diver from the airplane.
* Open the parachute.
* Control the downward drift of the Sky Diver.
* Land squarely on the pad at the bottom of the screen.

There are five two-player games in Sky Diver.  You and your oppenent have
nine jumps each in which to score points.  See the SCORING section for details.

Both planes fly across the screen simultaneously, but in opposite directions.

Wind Factor

You must contend with a varying wind factor during eachg jump (except in Games
3 and 4).  The "wind sock" at the bottom, center of the screen indicates the
direction and the speed of the wind.

If the sock is pointing to the right, the wind is blowing to the right, and
conversely for the left.  If the sock is hanging loosely, the wind speed is
slower than when the sock is flying rigidly and taut.

The wind factor changes between jumps and may vary slightly during a jump.

Console Controls

To select a game depress the game select switch.  The game number is shown in
the upper left corner of the screen.

To begin a game depress the game reset switch.  During game play the number of
jumps remaining is shown at the bottom left corner of the screen.

USING THE CONTROLLER

The left player uses the left Joystick; the right player uses the right
Joystick.  You have no control over the flight of the plane across the screen.
Here's how to use your Joystick Controller to operate the Sky Diver:

1. Push the red button on your Joystick Controller to release the Sky Diver
from the plane.

2. Pull back on the Joystick (toward yourself) to open the parachute.

3. Move the Joystick to the right and to the left to steer the Sky Diver right
or left against the wind.

SCORING

Here's where to combine nerve and skill to beat your opponent.  You only score
points when your Sky Diver lands squarely on the pad with an open parachute.

THE LONGER YOU WAIT TO OPEN THE PARACHUTE, THE MORE POINTS YOU SCORE.

You can score from 0 to 11 points per jump, depending on when you open the
chute.  There is a point at the bottom of the descent where the parachute can
no longer be opened.

If your Sky Diver hits the ground with an unopened chute, you lose four points.

The maximum score to shoot for in all games is 99.  The right and left scores
on the screen represent the right and left players, respectively.

HANDICAP (Difficulty Switches)

Beginning players should start with the difficulty switch in the b position.
In the a position, the planes fly significantly faster across the screen,
thereby increasing the difficulty.

It is possible for one player to have fast planes (using the a position), and
the other player to have slow planes (using the b position), in the same game.

The difficulty switches have no effect in Game 5.  Both planes fly at the
faster speed.

GAME DESCRIPTIONS

Games 1 and 2 are identical with one exception.  In Game 2 the width of each
landing pad is smaller, making it more difficult to score points.  The landing
pads are placed in different spots for each jump.

In Games 3 and 4 the landing pads move back and forth.  There is no wind
factor.  The landing pads in Game 4 are smaller in width.

Play "chicken" in Game 5 with your opponent.  There's only one landing pad in
the middle of the screen.  The first player to land squarely on the pad
scores points; the other player receives no points for that jump.

ATARI(R)

(W) A Warner Communications Company

ATARI, INC. Consumer Division
1195 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086

Printed in USA Rev 1

This document typed by gchance@ecst.csuchico.edu.
