SLOT RACERS TM

GAME PROGRAM TM INSTRUCTIONS

Model CX2606

ATARI

A Warner Communications Company

ATARI, INC., Consumer Division
1195 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086

(C) 1978, ATARI, INC.						C011402-06


SLOT RACERS TM

Use your Joystick Controllers with this Game Program TM. Be sure the
controllers are firmly connected to your Video Computer System TM.
Seethe Owner's Manual for details. Hold the controllers with the red
button to your upper left towards the television screen.

NOTE: To prolong the life of your Atari Video Computer System and 
protect the electronic components, the console unit should be OFF when 
inserting a Game Program.


HOW TO PLAY

Screech! Pow! Smash! This is the super chase scene, and you're in it right 
behind the wheel of a Super Chasemobile car equipped with power and 
incredible gadgets.

Console Controls:

To start the game action, use the console controls to program the type of 
game you want to play.

*       Press the Game Select to choose the game. The numbers of each
game appear in the upper left corner.  (See Game Descriptions of the game 
number of each game).
*	Press the Game Select to choose one of the four chase mazes.

There are four chase mazes. Each player steers one car through the maze. 
Chase your opponent and attempt to hit him with one of the secret missiles 
fired from your car headlights. You score a point each time you hit your 
opponent with a missile.

The differences between the nine games are:

*	The speed of the cars
*	The speed of the missiles
*	The direction of the missile path


CONTROLLER ACTION

Use your Joystick Controller to steer the car and fire missiles.

Steering the Car

*	Push the Joystick forward to accelerate the car
*	Pull the Joystick towards you to brake the car
*	Push the Joystick to the left to turn the car to the left
*	Push the Joystick to the right to turn the car to the right

NOTE: You can turn the car only when the car is moving.

Firing Missiles

To fire a missile, press the red controller button. After you fire a missile, 
there are three ways the missile can travel. Control the way the missile 
travels with your Joystick Controller.

1. If you want the missile to turn left after firing, push the Joystick to the 
left as you press the red controller button.

2. To turn the missile to the right after firing, push the Joystick to the right 
as you press the red controller button.

3. The missile will automatically turn at every corner (except in games 8 
and 9) when you press the red controller button without pushing the 
Joystick.

Driving Tips

*	In steering the car, note that you cannot turn the car into the wall. 
The car will automatically take a corner to avoid crashing into a wall.
*	After turning your car or missile onto a street remember to return 
the Joystick to its center position. For example, if you push the Joystick to 
the left to turn the car to the left, push the Joystick back to its center 
position. Otherwise, the car will continue to make left turns.


SCORING

You score one point each time you hit your opponent's car with a missile. 
The first player to score 25 points wins the game. The score of the left 
controller player appears in the upper left corner; the right controller 
player's score appears in the upper right corner.


HANDICAP   DIFFICULTY SWITCH

When the Difficulty is in the B position, you can shoot consecutive 
missiles. Note that if a previously fired missile is still on the screen when 
you fire a new missile, the old missile will dissappear.

In A position, you cannot fire another missile if you already have a missile 
on the screen. Before you can fire another missile:

*	The missile on the screen must hit your opponent's car                           
OR
*	You must retrieve the missile on the screen by steering your car into 
it.


GAME DESCRIPTIONS

GAMES 1-4
Select your favorite maze pattern. These games feature missiles that travel 
faster than the cars. Note that the speed of both the missiles and cars 
increase with each game number. For example, Game 1 has the slowest 
moving missiles and cars; Game 4 features the fastest moving missiles and 
cars.

GAMES 5-7
Drive your car fast on these mazes. This time, the cars travel faster than 
the missiles during these games. Note that the speed of the cars increase 
with each game number. For example, Game 5 features the slowest 
moving cars; Game 7 offers plenty of speed.

GAMES 8 AND 9
Missiles do not automatically turn corners during these games. That's why 
some of your missiles may become trapped in front of a wall. In Game 9 
you're driving race cars; Game 8 features slower cars.
-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
