	VIDTEC   VC 1002

	SNEAK'N
	PEEK

	Instructions

U.S. Games Corporations
A Subsidiary of The Quaker Oats Company
1515 Wyatt Drive
Santa Clara, California 95054


Sneak'n Peek Game Variations

Sneak'n Peek is a one or two player hide and seek game designed to be played
on the Atari Video Computer System or the Sears Video Arcade.  There are
four variations of the basic game and two levels of difficulty to increase
your enjoyment and test your skill.

Sneak'n Peek is played in and around a spooky old house with a large yard
and three weird rooms.  Each room, including the yard, is a separate scene:

-	a living room
-	a pink bedroom
-	a blue bedroom
-	the yard

Each scene contains up to five hiding places.  That makes a total of twenty
hiding locations.  Some of them are in really strange places, and some of
the locations can change depending on the level you select.

The game always begins in the living room with player one standing in the
corner and covering his eyes.  Player two may sneak in to any of the five
hiding places in the living room or exit through the door to another scene.
To enter another room or go out-of-doors, move the player through the
doorway and a new scene will appear.

When a hiding place is found, simply move the joystick and the hiding place
will pull the player in, making him invisible.  If you don't like the hiding
place and want to move to another, then before the player is all the way
into the hiding place, hold down the Red Button while moving the Joystick
and the player will back away.  A timer keeps track of how long it takes the
player to hide.

Once the player is hidden, the computer will signal the other player to
begin seeking the sneaky hider and his counter will begin counting.  Player
two must peek in the hiding places.  When player one has been found, player
two will automatically be pulled into the hiding place and the timer will
stop.  Immediately the living room scene will reappear and the roles will
automatically reverse.  Player two can then hide while player one covers his
eyes in the corner.  (You will probably want your opponent to really cover
his own eyes while you are hiding your player so that he can't sneak a peek.)

With practice, you will be able to find and remember all of the hiding
places, and be able to fine your opponent in less time than he takes to find
you when it is your turn to hide.

If a friend isn't available to play, the computer will be happy to hide from
you.  It knows all of the hiding places and is very sneaky.

[Screen Shot of Living Room scene: Timer up top, Door black rectangle on
left side of screen, Seeking Player in corner with hands over eyes, and
Hiding Player in front of blue couch.]


Sneak'n Peek Game Variations

Game 1
One Player Game
Fixed Hiding Places
Computer Hides

Game 2
Two Player Game
Fixed Hiding Places
Players Both Hide

Game 3
Two Player Game
Variable Hiding Places*
Players Both Hide

Game 4
Two Player Game
Fixed Hiding Places
Computer Hides

* 3 fixed hiding places and 2 variable hiding places.  The 2 variable hiding
places can change from their standard positions to new positions in the same
scene.  They change every time a player enters the scene to hide.


Instructions
1.	Connect the Atari Video Computer System or Sears Video Arcade following
the manufacturer's instructions.
2.	Install the Joystick controls.  The Left Joystick controls the dark color
player and the Right Joystick controls the light color player.  For game
variation number one, only the Left Joystick control is used.
3.	Insert the cartridge, making certain that the power is OFF.
4.	Move the power switch to ON.
5.	Select the game variation of your choice.  Continuous activations of the
SELECT switch will cycle the unit through four possible game variations.
Refer to Sneak'n Peek Game Variations chart.
6.	Select the desired level of difficulty.  The Left Difficulty Switch
controls the Left Joystick and the Right Difficulty Switch controls the
Right Joystick.  The difficulty levels are:
		Position A -	Most difficult game play.
		(Expert)	The size of the hiding place is very small and entry can
                                be gained only by moving the player in a
specific direction.
		Position B -	Least difficult game play.
		(Novice)	The size of the hiding places is much larger and entry into
                                the hiding places occurs independent of the
player's direction
                                of movement.
7.	Sneak'n Peek has two timers, one for the hiding player and one for the
seeking player.  The seeking player's timer is four times slower than the
hiding player's timer.  The hiding player's timer counts up; the seeking
player's timer counts down.
8.	To reset the game at any time, simply depress the RESET switch on the
Atari Video Computer System or Sears Video Arcade.


Diagrams of Hiding Places
(including direction required to enter each hiding place and whether it each
is a variable or fixed hiding place.)

Living Room
Under Blue Couch (up, fixed)
Behind Blue Couch (left, fixed)
Bottom of Room Left (down, fixed)
Bottom of Room Right (down, variable)
Corner of Room, Right-side of Couch (up, variable)

Blue Bedroom
Under Side of Pink Bed (up, fixed)
Under Foot of Pink Bed (up, fixed)
Left Side of Room Bottom (left, variable)
Right Side of Room (right, variable)
Closet Right Side (right, fixed)

Pink Bedroom
Under Side of Blue Bed (up, fixed)
Under Foot of Blue Bed (up, fixed)
Closet Left Side (left, fixed)
Room Floor Center Left (up, variable)
Room Floor Center Right (up, variable)

The Yard
Left Side of House (right, fixed)
Right Side of House (left, fixed)
Walkway (up, fixed)
Right of Front Door Under Windows (up, variable)
Right Side of Yard (right, variable)


Look for more Vidtec videogames wherever you buy game cartridges.  Drop us a
note and we'll be glad to add your name to our mailing list and keep you
posted on new Vidtec game cartridges when they become available.

USG Vidtek
U.S. Games Corporation
A Subsidiary of The Quaker Oats Company
1515 Wyatt Drive
Santa Clara, California 95054

ATARI and Video Computer System are trademarks of Atari, Inc.

VC 1002  Copyright 19812 U.S. Games Corporation.
Printed in Taiwan.

Manual typed by Lafe Travis.
