SNOOPY AND THE RED BARON

Note: Always turn the console POWER switch OFF when inserting or
removing an ATARI Game Program (tm) cartridge.  This will protect the
electronic components and prolong the life of your ATARI 2600 (tm) Video
Computer System (tm) game.

GAME PLAY
The dastardly Red Baron has stolen important food supplies from the
allies during the war.  Hamburgers, ice cream cones, popcorn and other
tasty treats have been taken by this evil aviator and sharpshooter.
Your task is to help Snoopy shoot down the Red Baron and recover the
stolen supplies.

You begin your mission with four doghouses.  It takes eight direct hits
to bring down the Red Baron, and for the Red baron to bring down
Snoopy's doghouse.  If the Red Baron downs a doghouse, all accumulated
treats will be lost.  Press the controller button to fire Snoopy's
machine gun.

Note: Snoopy cannot fly above the clouds.

To catch a stolen treat: Keep an eye on the Red Baron when he drops a
tasty morsel from his tri-plane.  Recover the falling treat by touching
it with Snoopy's doghouse.  But watch out!  The Red Baron can also drop
skull and crossbones, and if you catch one, you lose all of the treats
you've collected.

If you manage to shoot down all the Red Barons in the round and collect
all the treats, bonus points are added to your score (see SCORING).
Press the controller button to begin the next round.

Before you press GAME RESET (see CONTROLS), you can play a practice game
without scoring points, and without being shot down.


USING THE CONTROLLER
Be sure your controllers are firmly plugged into the jacks on your
console.  For one-player games, plug your controller into the left
controller jack.  Hold the controller with the red button to your upper
left, toward the television screen.

Press GAME SELECT to choose the skill level you want: 1-medium,
2-advanced, or 3-expert.  Game 4 is an easy version for young children
and beginners.  The number to the right of the game number indicates the
number of Red Barons in each round.

Press GAME RESET to start and restart the game.

Press the red button to continue playing at the end of each round.


SCORING
Points During Flight
Red Baron Hit           10
Each Treat              40

Bonus Points (at the end of round)
Each Treat Recovered    50
Red Baron Shot Down     100
All treats recovered    Bonus Doghouse

A Gold Baron is earned after fifty Red Barons are shot down.  An
exclamation point indicates each one million points.


HELPFUL HINTS
* When Snoopy catches a treat, the Red Baron will come after him, so
quickly fly away.

* Fly Snoopy down toward the mountains to lure the Red Baron out of the
clouds, where Snoopy dares not roam.

* Try to fly behind the Red Baron.  He cannot shoot backwards.


