Tigervision    7-006

Instructions

for your Atari 2600 Video Computer System
and Sears Video Arcade

SPRINGER



Introduction:

Springer is the rabbit. Your job is to help Springer 
jump from cloud to cloud collecting bonuses by
kicking the dragons, eggs, and other objects
and trying to find the fastest path t the sun (top).

1. Connect your video game. Be sure to follow the
manufacturer's instructions.

2. With the power in the off position, insert the Springer
cartridge.

3. Plug in one joystick into the left position. This is a 
one player game.

4. Turn power "on". Turn the television "on"

5. The game will automatically display the 3 frames (screens).
Game play always begins with screen "one." In order to be able to
play screen two or three you must first "clear" the preceding screen.
Springer is designed after a real coin arcade game with progressive
game play.

6. Start the game play by pressing the game reset switch. 
Game play always begins with screen one.

7. Joystick Control Action
After the Springer start of game music, you can use the joystick
and jump key to move the rabbit:

Left or right	:	walk left or right respectively
Up			:	kick
Down			:	jump down
Fire (red button)	:	jump upward
Fire and left	:	jump forward to left
Fire and right	:	jump forward to right
Fire and down	:	jump forward and downward, direction
				depends on direction rabbit facing.

(Screen shot)

8. Game Play

For the first screen, try to reach the sun while collecting
all the bonus objects.

For the second screen and those that follow, in addition
to collecting all the bonus objects, you must also collect
all the eggs and dragons in order to progress to the next
screen.

Be careful and try to avoid falling from the clouds.

Try to reach the sun before the bonus timer reaches zero and 
you are awarded all time / points left on the bonus clock.

9. Scoring

In addition to the time bonus awarded at the completion of
a frame, Springer gets points for:

Dragon:	80 points
Large egg:	60 points
Egg:		30 points
Each jump
onto the
moving
cloud:	5 points

Bonus Scoring:

Frame 1:	Toothbrush		50 points
		Carrot		30 points

Frame 2:	Pot			90 points
		Glass			45 points

Frame 3:	Cup			80 points
		Toothbrush		15 points

10. Progressive Play

After completing the first screen, Springer will be
challenged with a second and third unique screen.
Generally the time for the eggs changing to dragons
is shorter and the moving cloud is faster as you progress
to the first screen with increased difficulty. This sequence
continues.

Note:

Frame 1, Round 2		2 clouds disappear
Frame 2, Round 2		1 cloud comes and goes away
Frame 3, Round 2		Length of moving cloud is shorter

11. 3 Chances for each game. One extra chance is awarded
if you complete the third frame, but the maximum number
of chances will not exceed 4.

12 End Game

When you lose all chances the game ends. The screen will remain
for 30 seconds and then go to the demonstration mode. Restart
game play by pressing the reset switch.

13. Hints:

The best strategy for the first 3 frames is to find the shortest
route to the sun while taking all the bonus objects.

On the third frame, pay attention to the cloud just below the
sun; it will disappear and reappear on the other side.

After the third frame you must try to kill all eggs before they
change to large eggs or dragons.

Tigervision
909 Orchard Mundelein, IL 60060
copyright 1982 Tiger Electronic Toys, Inc.

Springer is a trademark of Orca Corp.
