                             ATARI(R) 2600(TM)

                       SWORDQUEST(TM) EarthWorld(TM)

NOTE: Always turn the console POWER switch OFF when inserting or removing an
ATARI(R) Game Program(TM) cartridge. This will protect the electronic
components and prolong the life of your ATARI 2600 Video Computer System(TM)
game.

(C) 1982 ATARI, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

                  ATARI(R) GAME PROGRAM(TM) INSTRUCTIONS

                           TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. EARTHWORLD(TM)                                      1
--------------------------------------------------------

2. GAME PLAY                                           2
--------------------------------------------------------

3. USING THE CONTROLLER                                6
--------------------------------------------------------

4. CONSOLE CONTROLS                                    8
--------------------------------------------------------

5. HELPFUL HINTS                                       8
--------------------------------------------------------

                          1. EARTHWORLD(TM)

WARNING: All you who enter EarthWorld will encounter danger, trials, tests, and
obstacles. All will have an equal chance to decipher the hidden message.

Welcome to EarthWorld. This is the first in a series of four world that you
must pass through on your quest for the Sword of Ultimate Sorcery.

As you explore EarthWorld, you will traverse 12 rooms, each named after a sign
of the zodiac. You will encounter danger such as the horns of a charging Taurus
bull, and you will be called upon to demonstrate your skill and ingenuity.

A variety of magical objects will assist you in the challenging journey ahead.
These are strewn about the various zodiac chambers. Carrying certain objects
along with you helps with game play. For example, the lamp allows you to see
the charging horns in the dark bull pit of Taurus. By leaving the right
combination of objects in the right zodiac chamber, you'll discover
illuminating clues. These clues may:

1. Refer back to the enclosed comic book and hint at the solution to the
EarthWorld puzzle.

2. Refer to the next world in the SWORDQUEST series, FireWorld(TM).

3. Help you solve the final puzzle of all four SWORDQUEST cartridges combined.

Be off with you! EarthWorld awaits your careful exploration.

                              2. GAME PLAY

As an explorer and clue seeker in the subterranean landscape represented in
this game cartridge, your objective is to find the hidden clues and solve the
puzzle.

In EarthWorld are 12 special rooms, each bearing a sign of the zodiac on its
wall. FIGURE 1 shows a zodiac chamber and FIGURE 2 shows the symbols for all
of the zodiac rooms. Travers the 12 rooms and select magic objects. You can
take 6 objects at a time. Then, as you leave the right obejcts in the
appropriate rooms, you'll receive clues that will help you solve the puzzle.

(Figure 1 shows: Object in Room - something on the top of the screen, which
are items you can pick up or drop. The Door is how you get out of the Zodiac
Chamber, on the lower left. The Zodiac Sign is the middle item on the bottom
row. The Cursor is you, and you can move it with the Joystick controller.)

(Figure 2 shows all the Zodiac Room Symbols: Aries is in a dark yellow room,
Pisces is in light blue, Aquarius is in purple, Capricorn is in light green,
Sagittarius is in light yellow, Scorpio is in red, Libra is in tan, Virgo is
in dark pink, Leo is in dark green, Cancer is in orange, Gemini is in dark
blue, and Taurus is in light pink.)

As you will recall from reading the EarthWorld comic book, Torr and Tarra must
use the magical objects to get at the hidden sword. These objects will help
you as well. Think about what each article could be useful for. You may even
want to experiment with carrying different combinations from room to room
before you embark on serious game play. FIGURE 3 shows what each object looks
like.

(Figure 3 shows the objects: the Key looks like a key, the Rope looks like a
coil of rope bunched up with a strand hanging at the top, the Amulet has two
small crosses on each end, one on top and one on bottom, with a rectangle
split down the middle in between the two crosses, the Lamp looks like a candle,
the Cloak of Invisibility looks like a circle, the Shoes of Stealth look like
a pair of shoes, the Dagger is the shortest "sword" out of all the objects,
the Leather Armor looks like a shield of some sort, the Water looks like a
pitcher of water, the Food looks like a bottle next to a few pieces of
something, the Tailsman of Passage looks like a person with a hand being held
up, the Ring looks like a very small circle, the Necklace looks like a circle
with a cross on the bottom of it, the Warrior's Sword(*) is the largest of the
swords, the Short Sword is the sword in the middle of all three swords, and
the Grappling Hook looks like a hook.)

            * An object you seek in EarthWorld, but not the Sword of Ultimate
              Sorcery.

By leaving the right object(s) in the right room(s), you will receive a clue
display (see FIGURE 4). In the center of the clue display is your clue. Pay
close attention to each clue as it is your key to solving the puzzle.

(Figure 4 shows on the screen: A series of colored lines, and in the middle are
two numbers. They show 16 and 5 in their example.)

Frequently, a clue refers back to the comic book. For example, the numerals
16 and 5 in FIGURE 4 could mean: Look on page 16, panel 5 to find a clue that
will help you solve the puzzle. By trial and error you can learn how to
interpret EarthWorld's clues. EarthWorld contains 11 clues, some are valid to
the puzzle, some are not. One clue will help you in the next SWORDQUEST game
cartridge, FireWorld.

Scattered about EarthWorld are skill and action sequences. In these you must
cross some barrier to reach a room where you can leave or retrieve objects.
You must leap from raft to raft to cross the Aquarian rapids (FIGURE 5),
dodge the spears of Sagittarius and the horns of Taurus (FIGURES 6 AND 7),
and run throught a roaring waterfall in the jungle of Leo (FIGURE 8).

Your reward for successfully meeting a skill and action test is often an
object that will work great enchantment for you in the future game play. To
get out of a skill and action room, press the red button on your controller
(see Section 3).

(Figure 5 - Rafts in Aquarian Rapids: This shows your characters at the bottom
of the screen, with many red "rafts" moving left and right across the screen,
with a door at the top of the screen. Figure 6 - Sagittarius Spears: This is
almost the same, but this time yellow "spears" moving left and right, with a
yellow bar at the top of the screen. Figure 7 - Charging Taurus Horns: This has
short, red "horns" this time, with a red bar at the top. Figure 8 - Leo
Waterfall: This shows a multi-colored line running vertically down the screen,
with a break in which you must make your character run.)

FINAL SEQUENCE

When you have performed all the trials and tasks and have done the right things
with all 15 objects, you will magically be transported back to the SwordQuest
screen (see FIGURE 9). At the bottom of the screen in place of the copyright
notice, is your final clue. Read the clue, then push the button on your
controller. Poof! Now you're in the chamber where the Warrior's Sword awaits
you. Pick it up, it is yours. You are armed and ready to embark upon the next
quest, FireWorld.

(Figure 9 - Swordquest First Display: This is what you see when you first turn
on the game, the title screen.)

                          3. USING THE CONTROLLER

Use your Joystick Controller with this ATARI(R) Game Program(TM) cartridge. Be
sure to plus the controller cable firmly into the left jack at the back of your
ATARI Video Computer System(TM) game. Hold the Joystick with the red button to
your upper left, toward the television screen. (See Section 3 of your Owner's
Manual for further details.)

TO START GAME

Press the controller button to commence game play. You will be instantly
transported from the first display (FIGURE 9) into a doorway (FIGURE 10). Press
the button again and you'll be in a zodiac chamber.

(Figure 10 - Doorway: This is the first thing you see when you start the game.
There are exits on the left, right, top and bottom of the screen. Your man is
in the center, and the objects that you carry are at the bottom of the screen.)

CONTROLLER ACTION

Use the Joystick to move your explorer through the maze of rooms. The explorer
moves up, down, right, left, and diagonally in the same direction you move the
Joystick.

To pick up treasure, position your cursor over an object and press the red
button on your controller. The object will appear on the bottom of the screen
and will move with you through the maze until you deliberately leave it
somewhere. Once you have 6 items in your inventory, you must drop one to pick
up an additional item. To leave an object in a room, go to the bottom of the
screen, position your cursor over the object, and press the red button. The
object will stay in the room until you retrieve it.

NOTE: You must be in a room that has the sign of the zodiac on its wall in
order to leave or retrieve a magical object.

To move out of the zodiac rooms, position your cursor on the door (see FIGURE
1) located next to the zodiac sign and press the red button on your controller.
You will then be in the doorway of the zodiac room (see FIGURE 10); note that
it is the same color as the zodiac chamber.

To move out of the doorway and into another zodiac room, walk through any of
the four exits. You will be sent down a corridor into another doorway. Press
the red button on your controller and you'll be in a zodiac room or a skill and
action test which you must pass in order to get to a zodiac room.

NOTE: You will need to carry a magic object to move out of the right and left
exits of the doorways.

You can leave and re-enter EarthWorld without turning the game off. After about
20 minutes, the first display will come back (FIGURE 9). When you're ready to
return to your last position, simply press the red button on your controller.

                            4. CONSOLE CONTROLS

GAME RESET SWITCH

Press the GAME RESET switch during game play to return to the first display
(FIGURE 9) and start the game over.

GAME SELECT SWITCH

Since EarthWorld consists of one, continuing, adventure-type game, the GAME
SELECT switch is not used.

DIFFICULTY SWITCHES

DIFFICULTY switches are not used in this game.

TY TYPE SWITCH

Set this switch to COLOR if your television set is color. Set it to B/W to play
the game on a black and white TV.

                             5. HELPFUL HINTS

1. Play the game with paper and pen. Write down every clue and keep a log of
every movement and its result for your future reference.

2. Remember that carrying certain objects along helps with game play.

3. If you become frustrated trying to do a skill and action sequence, push the
red button on your controller and go to another room.

4. Some skill and action sequences may become easier if you wait a while in the
room itself before trying to do the task.

5. Just because you use an object to obtain one clue doesn't mean that same
object won't help you in future clues or tasks.

                       SWORDQUEST(TM) EarthWorld(TM)

                 GAME CARTRIDGE LIMITIED NINETY DAY WARRANTY

ATARI, INC. ("Atari") warrants to the original consumer purchaser that your
ATARI(R) Game Program cartridge is free from any defects in material or
workmanship for a period of ninety days from the date of purchase. If any
such defect is discovered within the warranty period, Atari's sole obligation
will be to replace the cartridge free of charge on receipt of the cartridge
(charges prepaid, if mailed or shipped) with proof of date of purchase at
either the retail store where the cartridge was purchased or at one of the
ATARI Regional Service Centers listed below:

Atari, Inc.                             Atari, Inc.
1312 Crossman Ave.                      5400 Newport Dr.
Sunnyvale, CA 94086                     Suite 1
                                        Rolling Meadows, IL 60008

Atari, Inc.                             Atari, Inc.
12 B World's Fair Dr.                   2109 East Division St.
Somerset, NJ 08873                      Arlington, TX 76001

This warranty shall not apply if the cartridge (i) has been misused or shows
signs of excessive wear, (ii) has been damaged by being used with any products
not supplied by ATARI, or (iii) has been damamged by being serviced or
modified by anyone other than an ATARI Regional Service Center.

ANY APPLICABLE IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS, ARE HEARBY LIMITED TO NINETY DAYS FROM THE DATE OF PURCHASE.
CONSEQUENTAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM A BREACH OF ANY APPLICABLE
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARE HEARBY EXCLUDED.

Some states do not allow limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts or
do not allow the exclusions or limitations of incidental or consequential
damages, so the above limitations or exclusions may not apply to you.

This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also have other
rights which vary from state to state.

                                 |||
                                 |||
                                / | \
                               /  |  \
                              /   |   \
                               ATARI(R)

ATARI, INC., Consumer Division, P.O. Box 427, Sunnyvale, CA 94086
A Warner Communications Company

---------------------------------------------------------------------
_____________________________________________________________________
C019741-56 REV. 1 CX2656     (C) 1982 ATARI, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                         Printed in U.S.A.


