STAR VOYAGER

GAME PROGRAM INSTRUCTIONS

Returning from a secret diplomatic mission, the Astro-Cruiser Star Voyager
receives an urgent stellar communication: "Zakor has betrayed new treaty.
Capital Starport under siege. Relief imperative. Return immediately.
Caution: Zakoran enemy ships patrol the seven star portals. Energy supplies
limited: Refuel at each star portal. Hurry!"

OBJECTIVE

Pilot Star Voyager through treacherous space. As you look out from the
Command Bridge, stars rush past. Penetrate the seven star portals and save
the Capital Starport. Destroy enemy ships with photon torpedoes or lasers,
or evade them to maintain your precious energy supply.

Keep track of energy levels on the instrument panel. Use your radar screen
to locate opponents and approaching star portals. Only passing through a
star portal restores your energy reserves. But be warned! Crashing into a
star portal will destroy you!

GAME PLAY

   * Your viewer displays the hostile space you navigate.
   * Sights at the center of the viewer show where your 2 lines of fire
     meet.
   * Weapon fire originates under wings located on either side of the
     Command Bridge. Lasers use more energy than photon torpedoes but have
     a wider, more effective range. Both destroy anything in their paths.
   * Enemy ships and star portals first appear as small distant dots, then
     advance. Enemy pulsar bombs flash white hot on your viewer. Each hit
     costs you energy as enemy ships and their fire crash into Star Voyager
     defense shields.

Destroy enemy ships, maintain energy levels, eclipse star portals--you'll
earn field promotions. (See Scoring.)

   * Your instrument panel helps. The reading on the left indicates the
     number of enemy ships you've blasted. Energy still in reserve appears
     on the right.
   * The radar screen in the middle of the panel shows both the nearest
     enemy (solid dot) and star portal (flashing blip.)
   * Audio signals alert you to approaching foes and star portals. Four
     beeps indicate an alien presence. A musical overture sounds when a
     star portal is near.

Listen for star portal opportunities. When signaled, maneuver the flashing
blip to dead center of the radar screen with your joystick controller.
Quickly! It will appear on your viewer. Line the star portal up between
your sights and flash through!

HAND CONTROLS

   * Your joystick responds like pilot controls. To navigate: pull stick
     toward you to climb. Push forward to dive. Rotate to the right and
     veer right; to the left, veer left. Position joystick so that the red
     button is at the upper left hand corner.
   * To fire laser or photon torpedoes: press red button.
   * 1-player versions: use left hand controller.

CONSOLE UNIT

   * Flip Game Select Lever to choose a Star Voyager game.
   * Game number appears in lower left of screen.
   * Hit Game Reset Lever to begin action. Game begins again whenever Reset
     Lever is tapped.
   * Fire button on left hand controller will reset game when previous game
     ends.

SPEED

The Left Difficulty Lever controls the pace of enemy attack and star portal
appearance.

   * Normal mode: A
   * Accelerated action: B

WEAPONS

Select weapons with the Right Difficulty Lever:

   * Lasers: position A
   * Photon Torpedoes: position B

GAME VARIATIONS

1 player opposes a computer-controlled foe. Use left hand controller.

2 player

   * Team up as Pilot and Weapons Officer. Select game number 1. The pilot
     uses the left hand controller. The right joystick controls weapon
     fire.
   * For a combative challenge, play game number 2. The left joystick
     operates Star Voyager. The right maneuvers enemy ships and controls
     pulsar bomb fire.

SCORING

   * Multiply your tally of enemy casualties by 5.
   * Add 10 points for each star portal penetrated. Determine the number of
     star portals crossed by the color of the viewer border:

       Blue--Grey--Yel--Or--Grn--Viol--Pink--Blue
         0     1    2    3   4     5     6     7


     (Color tone varies depending on TV screen)

Your score earns you field promotions:

  0-15     AWOL
 16-47     (one Chevron)
 48-79     (two Chevrons)
 80-111    (three Chevrons)
112-143    (four Chevrons)
144-175    Lieutenant
176-207    Captain
208-       Admiral

Rankings appear at game's end.

TACTICAL TIPS

   * Practice Star Voyager by playing a 2-player version alone.
   * Plug in both joysticks.
   * Use the left controller.
   * Move left Difficulty Lever to B. Star portals will appear at center
     screen.
   * Learn to recognize enemy ships, control your fire, and read the radar
     scope.

WARRANTY

IMAGIC VIDEO GAME CARTRIDGE TWO YEAR LIMITED WARRANTY

Imagic, Inc. warrants to the original consumer purchaser of this Imagic
video game cartridge that it will be free from defects in materials and
workmanship for TWO YEARS from the date of purchase. If this cartridge is
discovered to be defective within the warranty period, Imagic, at its
option, will either repair or replace this cartridge free of charge, upon
receipt of the cartridge, postage prepaid, with proof of date of purchase,
at the following location:
IMAGIC, INC.
Customer Services
20665 Fourth Street
Saratoga, CA 95070

This warranty is limited to electronic and mechanical parts contained
within the cartridge. It is not applicable to normal wear and tear and is
not applicable and shall be void if the defect has arisen through, or the
cartridge shows signs of, misuse, excessive wear, modifications, or
tampering.

THIS WARRANTY IS IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER EXPRESS WARRANTIES OR
REPRESENTATIONS. ANY APPLICABLE IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, ARE LIMITED TO A PERIOD OF TWO YEARS FROM THE
DATE OF PURCHASE. IMAGIC IS NOT LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM BREACH OF ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES ON THIS CARTRIDGE.

Some states do not allow limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts
or the exclusion or limitation of incidental or consequential damages, so
the limitations or exclusions set forth above may not apply to you. This
warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have other
rights which vary from state to state.

STAR VOYAGER

Imagic wants you to be as pleased in playing our games as we are in
providing them. Your playing pleasure is our chief concern, so let us know
how we can best serve you. Please write to:

IMAGIC, INC.
Consumer Affairs
20665 Fourth Street
Saratoga, CA 95070

© 1982 IMAGIC INCORPORATED
Printed in USA ---------- Cut Here ---------- -- Marc G. Frank
mgfrank@erebus.com
