*** Street Racer (1-4 Players) ***

Street Racer

Game Program Instructions

Atari Inc. Consumer Division
1195 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086

(c) 1977 Atari Inc.   C011402-12



Use your standard Paddle Controllers with this game program.  Be sure to
plug in the Controller cable firmly into the jacks on the rear of your
Computer System.  See your Owner's Manual for details.  You will need another
set of Standard Paddle Controllers for three or four players for Street Racer.
During one or two-player games, plug your controller into the left side of the
Console.

CONTROLLER ACTION

In all the racing games, use the knob on the top of the Controller to steer the
vehicle on the playfield.  The red button on the side of the Controller is your
accelerator in Street Racer (tm) Slalom (tm), Scoop Ball (tm), and Number
Cruncher (tm).  Use the red button as a forward thrust in Dodgem (tm) and to
fire bullets in Jet Shooter (tm)

DIFFICULTY

Slide the difficulty switch from "B" to "A" position and you lose one point for
each collision that occurs during the game you are playing.

SCORING

In one-player games you race against the clock as you try to make points within
2 minutes and 16 seconds.  During two, three and four player games, you
compete against opponents to score the most points within 2 minutes and 16
seconds.  Your score will flash on and off the screen during the final 16
seconds of game time.

STREET RACER

Avoid collisions and score points!  One, 2, 3 or 4 players each control one
car on the track playfield.  In one and two-player games, each player uses a
separate vertical track.  In three and four-player games, two players share one
track.

Each player tests his skill against computer cars.  Use the knob on the
Controller to steer your car around the oncoming cars heading straight for you!
Press the red Controller buton to increase your speed.

Score one point for every car you pass.  Your car is color coordinated with
your score that appears at the top of the playfield.

Each game is completed after 2 minutes and 16 seconds or when a player or team
scores 99 points.  Your score will flash on and off during the final 16 seconds
of game time.

You'll hear the hum of the motors, CRASHES, and BEEPS when you score.

GAME 1

One player steers a car on a moving vertical track avoiding collisions and
racing against the computer car.

GAME 2

Two players each steer a car on separate moving tracks avoiding collision with
computer cars that appear on the track one at a time.

GAME 3

Each of the three players controls one car and avoid collisions with computer
cars that appear on the track one at a time.  Two players share the right track
and compete against one player on the left track.

GAME 4

Four players compete to avoid collisions with cars that appear one at a time.
Two players are on each driving team and share one track.

GAME 5

Two players each steer a car down separate tracks while steering around
computer cars that appear two at a time.

GAME 6

Four players compete to avoid collisions.  Two computer cars head down the
track at one time.  There are two players on each driving team that shares one
track.

SLALOM

Put on your skis and get ready for the treacherous slopes.  One, 2, 3 or 4
players each control one set of skis.  In one and two-player games, each
player skis on his own private ski run.  In three and four-player games, two
players share a ski run.

Use the knob on the Controller to steer your skis through gates.  Press the
red Controller button when you want to increase the speed down the run.

Score one point for every gate you pass.  When you crash with the gate, you've
only lost time, not points.

NOTE:  Slide the Difficulty to "A" position and you lose one point upon
collision.  The gates also become narrower.

Your skis are color coordinated with the score that appears at the top of the
playfield.  A game of Slalom is completed when one player scores 99 points or
after 2 minutes and 16 seconds.  The scores will flash on and off during the
last 16 game seconds.

You'll hear the SWISH and the BEEPS when you pass through a gate and score one
point.  You'll also hear the CRASHES.

GAME 7

One player skis down the right slope and passes through gates that appear one
at a time on the ski run.  The left skier is your computer opponent.

GAME 8

Two players each have separate but identical runs.  Gates appear one at a time.

GAME 9

The ski gates appear one at a time for three players who compete for points.
Two players share the right ski run and compete against one player on the
left run.

GAME 10

Four players race down the slope and through the gates to make points.  Gates
appear on ski run one at a time.  Two players are on each ski team and share a
run.

GAME 11

Two players compete for points by passing through gates that appear two at a
time on the ski run.

GAME 12

Four players compete for points by passing through gates that appear two at a
time on the ski run.  Two players are on each ski team and share a run.

DODGEM

Sharpen your driving reflexes and make points when you avoid oncoming
obstacles.  One or two players each control one car.  In these one and two-
player games, each player has a private vertical straightaway track.

Use the Controller knob to steer your car.  Press the red Controller button
when you want to accelerate the car; release the button and the car gradually
falls backwards to the bottom of the track.

Your object is to move the car from the bottom of the track to the top while
dodging oncoming obstacles.  Score one point each time you complete the
straightaway.  Your car automatically returns to the bottom starting line when
you complete the track.

The score at the top of the playfield is color coordinated with your car.  A
game of Dodgem is complete when one player scores 99 points or after 2 minutes
and 16 seconds.  The score will flash on and off during the last 16 seconds of
the game.  You'll hear the motors hum, cars CRASH, and scores "BEEP."

GAME 13

One player races against the clock and tries to complete the track as many
times as possible within 2 minutes and 16 seconds.

GAME 14

Two opposing players compete for points on separate vertical tracks while
oncoming obstacles appear on the track one at a time.

GAME 15

One player races against the clock and tries to complete the track as many
times as possible.  Oncoming obstacles appear on the track two at a time.

GAME 16

Two opposing players compete for points on separate vertical tracks while
oncoming obstacles appear on the track two at a time.

JET SHOOTER

You're a fighter pilot in this game.  One or two players each control one
fighter jet equipped with missiles.  In these games, each player has a separate
air space.

Use the Controller knob to steer your jet through the sky.  Press the red
Controlelr button when you want to fire missiles and destroy enemy aircraft
approaching you from the opposite direction.

Score one point for each enemy aircraft you destroy.  Put the Difficulty switch
in the "B" position and you lose only time, not points, when an enemy jet
collides with you.  With the Difficulty switch in the "A" position you lose one
point for each collision.

A game is completed when one pilot scores 99 points or after 2 minutes and 16
seconds.  The score will flash on and off during the final 16 seconds of game
time.  You'll hear the missiles fire, crashes and the hum of the engines.

GAME 17

One player guides the right jet through the skies and attempts to shoot down
enemy jets that appear one at a time.  The left jet is your computer opponent.

GAME 18

Two Players each stter a jet in a private sky.  Oncoming enemy jets appear one
at a time.

GAME 19

One player steers the jet through the sky as enemy jets appear two at a time.

GAME 20

Two players each steer a jet as enemy jets appear in the sky two at a time.

NUMBER CRUNCHER

Got an appetite for Numbers?  One, two, three and four players each control
one Motorcyle that CRUNCHES numbers on the track.

In one and two-player games, each player drives up a private vertical track.
In three and four-player games, two players make up a motorcycle team and share
the right track.  Two players use one track in four-player games.

Use the Controller knob to steer your chopper down the track.  Press the red
Controller button when you want to accelerate the speed.

Your object is to run over the numbers on the track (2,4,6).  You score the
face value for each number you squash.  For example, score six points when you
CRUNCH a number 6.  Be sure to directly run over the numbers with the nose of
your chopper.  Sloppy aims can result in number collisions instead of points.

Your motorcycle is color coordinated with the score at the top of the track.
Number Cruncher games are completed when a player scores 99 points or after
2 minutes and 16 seconds.  During the final 16 seconds, your score will flash
on and off the scoreboard.

You'll hear the whine of the chopper engines and the CRUNCH and CRASH of the
numbers.

GAME 21

One player steers his motorcycle to CRUNCH numbers that appear on the track one
at a time.

GAME 22

Two players rumble down the tracks looking for numbers that appear two at a
time.

GAME 23

Three players take a thrilling ride up the track as numbers appear two at a
time.  Two players are on one motorcycle team and oppose one player.

GAME 24

Four players become a Number Cruncher Motorcycle Gang looking for numbers to
squash on the track.  Two players are on each motorcycle team and share one
track.  Numbers appear two at a time.

SCOOP BALL

Your object?  To catch balls and deposit them into a Computer Scooper.  To
catch the balls you have a giant moving Scooper.  Two, three or four players
each control one Scooper.  In two-player games, each player moves along a
private track.  Two players share the right track in three-player games;
during four-player games, two players are on each track.

Use the Controller knob to steer the Scooper up the track.  Press the red
Controller button to accelerate the Scooper.

You score one point each time you catch a ball (+)  Continue to catch balls
until a Computer Scooper appears on the screen. When you steer your Scooper
into the Computer Scooper, you score three points and deposit the ball or
balls you've collected.  If you CRASH before depositing, you lose your chance
to deposit the balls and score.

NOTE:  Your Scooper changes shape after you catch the first ball.  After you
deposit the balls, your Scooper returns to its original shape.

Your Scooper is color coordinated with the score at the top of the track. 
Games are completed when a player scores 99 points or after 2 minutes and 16
seconds.  During the final 16 game seconds, your score flashes on and off the
scoreboard.

You'll hear CRASHES, the Scooper motors, the scoop and deposit.

GAME 25

Two opposing players compete for balls and Computer Scoopers that appear on the
track two at a time.

GAME 26

Three players compete for points.  Two players are on one Scooper team and
share the right track.

GAME 27

Four players compete for points.  Two players are on each Scooper team as balls
and Computer Scoopers appear two at a time.


-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
