SUMMER GAMES

by Epyx
c 1987

INTRODUCTION
------------

SUMMER GAMES is a series of seven exciting competitive events.  Up to
eight players can enter this international contest, choosing a single
country for which to compete (no two players can choose the same
nation to represent).

The object is to see your country come out on top.  Events vary from
head-to-head races like hurdles, sprints, swimming and rowing, to solo
events like skeet and gymnastics.  Win an event either by scoring a
faster time or by piling up more points than your opponent.  The
nation that wins the most events takes home the gold medal!



GETTING STARTED
---------------

* Set up your video game console and plug in the cartridge.
* Turn the power switch on.
* Be sure to set the difficulty switch correctly as described below.


SWITCHES

* The left difficulty switch controls the number of joysticks.         
  Position A = two joysticks; B = one joystick.  Use the left joystick 
  when you're in the single-joystick mode.  If you wish to play head- 
to-head with your opponent and have two joysticks, select position     
A.  Otherwise flip the switch to position B.

* SELECT sends you into practice mode, allowing you to cycle           
  between events.  Practice in single joystick mode.  You'll           
  remain in an event until you press SELECT once more.

* SELECT also returns you to the country-select menu, from which       
you may start competing.

* RESET lets you restart a game from the middle, but also              
  transfers you into practice mode.

* Holding SELECT down and pressing RESET returns you to the            
  country-select menu.

* The right DIFFICULTY and TV TYPE switches should be ignored.


NOTES:

* DASH, HURDLE, AND ROWING have a computer opponent when you           
  played alone.

* In two-player games, the left joystick controls the top player       
  and the right joystick controls the bottom player.



STARTING PLAY
-------------

SUMMER GAMES begins as the title screen appears.  From the title
screen you will move on to the country-select menu by pressing the
FIRE BUTTON or waiting for the music to end.  The country-select menu
is a list of eight eligible countries:  the USA, USSR, U.K., Japan,
Greece, Canada, Spain, and Italy.

Highlight the country of your choice by moving the cursor up and down
with the joystick.  Press the FIRE BUTTON to select the highlighted
country.  If you change your mind after you've made your selection,
re-highlight the country you selected and press the FIRE BUTTON again. 
You will then be able to select a new country name from the list. 
When each player has selected a country to represent, move the cursor
to "Done" and press the FIRE BUTTON.  The first event's title will
appear on the screen.

Events are announced on a screen that shows the names of competing
countries and the name of each event as it is played.  Press the FIRE
BUTTON to enter the event; press the FIRE BUTTON again to start the
event.  If you fault during play, the even will replay up to three
times (you can only fault in certain events).  When a country finishes
an event, the announcement screen returns with the name of the next
nation to compete.  When all competitors have completed an event, the
next event begins.  The order of competing nations stays the same
throughout the series of events.



THE GAMES
---------

HURDLES

The object of this event is to jump all the hurdles as fast as you
can.  Press the FIRE BUTTON to begin READY/SET/GO sequence.  There is
an overhead view of the track in the center of the screen showing
which runner is ahead.  At GO push the joystick to the right and hold
it there until you near the first hurdle.  Jump hurdles by "tapping"
the joystick UP as your runner approaches each hurdle (holding the
joystick up for too long slows your man down).  Push the joystick
right to sprint again once you've cleared the hurdle.  Just as in live
competition, crashing into hurdles costs valuable time.  And the
harder you crash, the more 'get-up' time you're docked.  First one to
the finish live wins.


SWIMMING

Like the hurdling event, swimming begins with a READY/SET/GO sequence
when you press the FIRE BUTTON.  Anticipate the gun (GO) and press the
joystick to the right early to get a good start (but not too early or
you'll fault).  Gain speed by hitting the FIRE BUTTON on each down
stroke, just as your swimmer's arm reaches the water.  Turn quickly at
the pool's end by tapping the joystick left before you hit the wall. 
Time the strokes and the turns well and splash home to victory.  The
first swimmer to finish his laps wins.


SKEET SHOOTING

Targets are launched from the right or the left of the firing range
when you press the FIRE BUTTON.  Move the joystick left or right, up,
or down to sight the target and shoot by pressing the FIRE BUTTON. 
Shoot at either one or two targets from each of the eight shooting
posts.  Adjust your aim carefully and quickly before you fire (keep in
mind that there is a slight gravitational pull on your sight as you
aim).  The shooter with the most hits out of 25 wins the medal.


100-YARD DASH

The 100-yard dash is a speed event.  Runners line up on two parallel
tracks, as in the Hurdles event.  Press the FIRE BUTTON to start.  At
GO (but not before) move the joystick as fast as you can in any
direction to make your runner sprint.  Keep the joystick moving in all
directions as fast as you can until your runner reaches the finish
line.  The fastest time wins.


SWIMMING RELAY

Three-man teams compete against one another in this extended version
of the Swimming competition.  Press the FIRE BUTTON to start the
READY/SET/GO sequence.  As in the swimming event, anticipate the gun
(GO) and press the joystick right early to get a good start.  Press
the FIRE BUTTON just as the swimmer's arm reaches the water on the
down stroke to gain speed.  As he nears the right side of the pool,
tap the joystick to the left before he hits the wall to turn him
around.  Remember that each member of your relay team swims two laps;
as the first swimmer nears the left side of the pool, anticipate his
arrival and the tap the joystick right.  Be careful not to tap the
joystick too early or you will lose time!  Follow the same sequence
for each swimmer on your team.  The first team to finish wins.


GYMNASTICS

In this event, only one athlete competes at a time.  The winner is
determined by points gained in special maneuvers during his routine. 
The initial screen shows your gymnast ready to start his run at the
pommel horse.  Press the FIRE BUTTON to start your man running toward
the horse; press it again as he nears it to initiate a mount.  Once
mounted, your gymnast holds the pommel horse bar and circles the
horse's axis in a rhythmic motion.  Points are give for mounting and
dismounting correctly (0.5 each), for traversing the horse (0.5), and
for each 360 degree spin the gymnast makes (.005).  Points are
subtracted for incorrect hand placement (0.1), for moving in the wrong
direction (.1), for falling off the end of the horse (1.0 - automatic
disqualification), and for faulty dismounts (1.0).

The upper screen shows your gymnast in motion on the pommel horse. 
The lower screen shows your gymnast's hand position by a pair of dots
that follow his motion up and down the horse.  Increase his speed as
he revolves about the horse's axis by pushing the joystick left just
before he moves across the bottom of the pommel horse.  Push it to the
right as he approaches the top of the horse.  If you're quick, you can
increase speed faster by pushing the joystick right (or left) more
than once.  Your athlete will slow down if you fail to press the
joystick right and left, but he'll keep on the horse and in motion. 
Move the joystick up to move him to the top of the horse, move it down
for your gymnast to reach the 'south' end.  (Up-to-down or down-to-up
is a full transversal).  Remember he can fall off the end and be
disqualified!  Watch the hand and body movements of your gymnast to
determine when to push the joystick up or down.  (If he's moving to
the bottom of the horse, and his hands are close together, then the
bottom one should be moved...)  Remember that you can only move the
hand that is in the air (the smaller dot) so you must time your
movements carefully.  There is a one-minute time limit with a maximum
of 10 points to be earned.  When it is time to dismount, you'll hear a
warning bell.  Good Luck!


Rowing

A READY/SET/GO sequence begins this speed event.  Move the joystick
left and right in rhythm to gain top speed (speed is shown on an
indicator in the middle of the screen).  The fastest time wins the
event.



SCORING
-------

AWARDS CEREMONY

After every event, the countries of the top three competitors are
listed in the order they placed.  The country name of the Gold Medal
winners appears at the top of the screen.


Champion Ceremony

A Grand Champion of the games is selected based on the number of
points awarded.     
     Gold Medal   = 5 points
     Silver Medal = 3 points
     Bronze Medal = 2 points
The points are totaled after all events have been completed, and the
player with the most points is honored as the Grand Champion.  The
ceremony takes place after the Awards Ceremony for the final event.



NOTES
-----



And of course, this game was made by Epyx in 1987.  And this game manual 
was typed in by me!  And I am Eddie Beiles.  I can be reached at 
beiles@email.unc.edu if you have any questions about this game manual.  Or 
you can email me and thank me for typing it in.  Anyway, enjoy the game 
and this wonderfully typed in manual.


