               SURFING INSTRUCTIONS

INITIAL SET UP

1. Insert game into your Atari 2600 (with Power off)
   Then turn power on. You will see the initial screen.

2. Plug in left joystick controller.

3. Two numbers will appear on the upper left hand corner.
   The left number which will be zero at the start of
   play is the scoring clock. As long as the surfer
   is successfully riding the wave, this number will
   increase. The right number which starts at one, tells
   the player which game level will be played.

4. Game Select Switch: The player can select any one of
   four starting levels by depresseing game select
   switch.
5. Left Difficulty Switch: The object of the first part
   of the game is to keep the surfer as close as possible
   to the top (crest) of the moving wave. Some error is
   allowable. With the left difficulty switch in the "A"
   position, this error is greater than the "B" position
   so the game is easier in the "A" position.

5. Right Difficulty Switch: The game is normaly played
   in the "A" position. In the "B" position the shape
   of the ship will change while the surfer is under-
   water. Be careful for this is very tricky and
   difficult to get through successfully.

6. TV Type Switch: This switch can be used to stop the
   game (time out) at any time by placing it in the
   B-W (black and white) position. To continue game
   return the switch to the color position.

PLAYING

To start the game press the button on the joystick.or
the game start switch on the console).

Shark Attack - At various times the shark will swim
towards the surfer. Just before the shark comes in
contact with the surfer, press the button on the joystick
to jump the surfer over the shark.

When the surfer is underwater you must move the figure
through the sunken galleon while avoiding an attacking
octopus and position the figure close to the surfboard
which is floating and moving on the water on the top
right side of the scene. Beware of the jellyfish that
is located under the surfboard.

SCORING

The scoring timer will cycle only when the surfer is
riding the wave. The higher the number, the more skill-
ful the player.
Bonus - You will receive an extra turn for every 1000
points scored.

         SCORING      RATING
          1,500         poor
          2,500         good
          3,000.   excellent
          3,500        great