1. INTRODUCTION (GAME PLAY OBJECTIVE)

Welcome to the exciting and competitive world of SURROUND. Your basic
objective is to surround your opponent, causing him to run out of
space in which to move, and at the same time not running into
anything yourself. You can set up a blockade, force him into a corner
or wander off by yourself and hope that he runs into something on his
own.

Along with the basic SURROUND game, we've added four game features to
make things more interesting. Be sure to read Section 4 to learn more
about these features.

Then there's VIDEO GRAFFITI. It's just for fun without the competitive
edge thrown in. VIDEO GRAFFITI actually allows you to draw on the
screen. Again, read Section 4 to find out more.

We'd like to invite you to read the remainder of these instructions so
that you don't miss any important details. After that, you'll be
ready to have at it! There are one and two-player games so that you
may compete against the computer or another player. So good luck,
we're sure you're going to enjoy the SURROUND Game Program cartridge.

2. CONSOLE CONTROLS

GAME SELECT SWITCH
Press down the GAME SELECT switch to choose the game you wish to
play. There are 14 games in all. The game number changes at the top,
left side of the screen as you press down the GAME SELECT switch.
Reading Section 4 and Section 6 will help you decide which game or
games to play.

GAME RESET SWITCH
Once you have decided which game to play, press down the GAME RESET
switch to start the game. The GAME RESET switch may be used to start
a new game, or to reset a game at any time.


DIFFICULTY SWITCHES
Beginning players should start with the DIFFICULTY switch in the B
position. This position prevents the player from backing onto their
previous track block. In two-player games, the right player uses the
RIGHT DIFFICULTY switch, the left player uses the LEFT DIFFICULTY
switch. (Right and left player meaning the player using the right and
left controller, respectively.) During one-player games against the
computer, slide the LEFT DIFFICULTY switch to B if you want the
computer to play like an amateur; slide it to A if you want the
computer to play like a pro.

There is no difficulty factor in VIDEO GRAFFITI games (Games 13 and
14).

TV TYPE SWITCH

Set this switch to COLOR if you have a color television set. Set it
to B-W to play the game in black and white.

3. USING THE CONTROLLERS

Use your Joystick Controllers with this ATARI Game Program cartridge.
Be sure to plug the controller cables firmly into the jacks at the
back of your Video Computer System game. Hold the controller with the
red button to your upper left toward the television screen. Use the
RIGHT CONTROLLER jack for one-player games. See Section 3 of your
owners manual for further details.

NOTE: In two-player games, the right player uses the Joystick plugged
into the RIGHT CONTROLLER jack, the left player uses the Joystick
plugged into the LEFT CONTROLLER jack.

When the game begins, your blocks automatically move across the
screen toward your opponent. Use the Joystick to control the
horizontal and vertical movement of the tracks, or in games with
Diagonal Movement, the diagonal movement of the tracks.

Move your Joystick right, left, up or down to move your leader block
in the same direction on the screen. (See FlGURE 1.)

4. GAME VARIATIONS/FEATURES

Games 1-12 in this Game Program cartridge are all SURROUND games.
Check the GAME SELECT MATRIX, Section 6 to see which games are for
one player, and which games are for two players.

The SURROUND games offer four different features. The GAME SELECT
MATRIX will show you which features are offered in each game.

SPEED UP
As the leader block moves on the screen, it will speed up
automatically at different intervals. There are five speeds in all,
and you have no control over them. They will happen automatically
during each turn, so be prepared.

DIAGONAL MOVEMENT
In games with Diagonal Movement, you can move the leader block
diagonally on the playfield. (In all other games, you can only move
the blocks vertically or horizontally.) Move your Joystick in a
diagonal direction to move your leader block in the same diagonal
direction on the screen. For example, if the leader block of your
track is in the center of the playfield and you want to move it
diagonally to the upper right corner, move the Joystick to the right
and slightly away from you. (SeeFigure 1.) Figure 2 shows you an
example of what Diagonal Movement looks like on the screen.

ERASE
When you don't want to leave a track, press the red controller button
and no blocks will appear on the screen. Release the button and a
track of blocks will appear as you continue to steer with your
Joystick Controller. Use Erase for super strategy moves.

WRAPAROUND
In games featuring Wraparound, when you move your leader block off
the playfield, it will reappear at the opposite side (See FIGURE 3).
For example, move It off the top of the screen and it will reappear
at the bottom of the screen.

VIDEO GRAFFITI
Games 13 and 14 are appropriately called VIDEO GRAFFITI. You can
write a word, draw a picture, or get as abstract as you like. One or
two players can use their Joysticks to control the movement and the
direction of the track or tracks.

Move your Joystick in any direction to move the track block in the
same direction on the screen. VIDEO GRAFFITI uses Diagonal Movement,
Erase, and Wraparound. (See the GAME SELECT MATRIX) 

5. SCORING

You score one point when your opponent steers his leader block into
another part of his track or your track. In games which do not
feature Wraparound, you also score a point when your opponent steers
into one of the playfield boundaries.

NOTE: The most effective strategy is to surround your opponent's
tracks with your own tracks.

THE FIRST PLAYER TO SCORE 10 POINTS WINS THE GAME. The leader block
of your track is color coordinated with the score at the top of the
playfield.

In one-player games, your score is displayed at the upper right
corner of the screen. In two-player games, the right player's score
is on the right, the left player's score is on the left.

6. GAME SELECT MATRIX

Game Number        1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12      13      14
Number of Players  2  1  3  1  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  1 or 2  1 or 2
Speed Up                 X  X     X  X     X  X  X  X
Diagonal Movement              X  X  X        X  X  X               X
Erase                                X              X       X       X
Wraparound                              X  X  X  X  X       X       X
-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
