US GAMES VC 1009

towering
inferno
INSTRUCTIONS

U.S. Games Corporation
A Subsidiary of the Quaker Oats Company
1515 Wyatt Drive
Santa Clara, California 95054

Code Red!  Emergency!

The downtown skyscraper has burst into flames, and only you can rescue the
helpless hundreds trapped within.  Quickly, you helicopter to the scene, and
dispatch your men to battle the deadly flames.  How many survivors can you save?
Play TOWERING INFERNO and find out!

towering inferno

is a one or two player, full color, action-packed game designed for play on the
Atari(R) Computer System(TM) or Sears Video Arcade.

The Basics

1. Insert the cartridge, making sure the POWER switch is OFF.

2. Move the POWER switch to ON.

3. Select the game variation of your choice.

4. Press the RESET button to begin play.

THE GAME PLAY

1. Your mission is to rescue as many people as possible from the TOWERING
INFERNO in order to score as many points as possible.  There are 9 buildings
with 9 floors, each with a different floor plan, so you have lots of work to
do!

2. Four survivors are trapped on every floor; as the clock ticks, they dwindle
to 3, then 2, then 1, until no one is left to save.  Each survivor is worth
25 points.

3. You also score points by extinguishing the flames (1 point is scored for
each flame).  The flames, however, are deadly and must be avoided at all
costs.  If a flame touches one of your firemen, he perishes, and is replaced
by another fireman, if any remain.  You are given 4 firemen per floor.

4. If you successfully complete a floor, you and your survivors will helicopter
to safety and the computer automatically advances you to the next floor,
until the entire building is saved.

5. When you complete a building, the computer will advance you to the first 
floor of the next inferno until all 9 buildings are saved.  But beware; its
going to take lots of practice to get through all 9 buildings!

To Put Out the Flames 1 point each

1. Simply take aim and depress the red "fire" button.  Your supply of water is
limitless, so don't be stingy!  Some flames are harder to douse than others,
and you'll find they need an extra squirt before they go out.

2. There are two kinds of flames: a Flameoid and a Wall of Fire.  A Wall of
Fire is especially tricky because, when squirted, it breaks into smaller
flameoids which still have to be extinguished before safe passage is possible.

To Rescue the Survivors 25 points each

1. When you begin a floor, there are 4 survivors hiding behind the white window
at the top of the screen.

2. To save the survivors, maneuver your firemen from the bottom of the screen to
the white window at the top, depress your "fire" button to make the pick-up,
then flee as quickly as you can throught he right passageway at the bottom of
the screen.

3. A helicopter will automatically return you and your passengers to the ground,
where they safely disembark.

4. If your fireman comes into contact with a flame and perishes, the next one
automatically appears on the bottom of the screen, ready to do battle. (You'll
also notice that the escape passage is always blocked until you've picked up
the survivors--there's no coward's way out in TOWERING INFERNO.)

There's always a catch:

As time passes, fewer and fewer survivors remain.  Just before each one
perishes, the survivor display at the top of the screen begins to blink.  When
the last survivor is about to go, he lets you know with a loud, obnoxious
warning beep.  This is your signal to escape as fast as possible befoire all is
lost!

You've Successfully Completed a Floor When:

1. You've escaped with one or more survivors.

2. You've doused all the flames on the floor.  In this case, the clock stops
running, and no more survivors perish.  Escape at your leisure!

Upon successful completion of a floor, you and your survivors helicopter to
safety and the computer automatically advances you to the next level.

Set the Difficulty Switch:

Position A (hard): Flames are invisible within the walls, so you never know
where they might be hiding.

Position B (easy): Flames are visible through the walls, so you can anticipate
this movement.

Note: It is impossible to extinguish a flame, visible or not, if it appears
within a wall.

There Are 7 Game Variations:

Game 1 (one player) Game ends on any floor when there are no survivors left or
when all 4 firemen are lost.

Game 2 (one player) Game ends as in variation #1; however, pushing the reset
starts a new game at the same floor and score where the last game left off.

Game 3 (one player - continuous play) A practice game where the player repeats
each lost floor.

Game 4 (two players) Players alternate turns on each floor.  The game ends for
either player when he misses a floor.

Game 5 (two players - continuous play) Players alternate turns by floor.  Any
player missing a floor is restarted on floor 1 of the first building.

Game 6 (two players - continuous play) Players alternate turns by floor.  Any
player missing a floor repeats that floor.

Game 7 (two players - continuous play) Players alternate turns by floor.  If
either player completes a floor, both players advance another floor.

The Screen

When you have successfully completed a floor, the helicopter returns you to
the ground, where your survivors safely disembark. (See Front Cover Screen.)

U.S. GAMES(TM)

towering inferno(TM)

Look for more U.S. Games(TM) video games wherever you buy game cartridges.
Drop us a note and we'll be glad to add your name to our mailing list and
keep you posted on new U.S. Games game cartridges when they become available.

Space Jockey(TM)
Sneak 'n Peek(TM)
Towering Inferno(TM)
Word Zapper(TM)
Commando Raid(TM)

Towering Inferno(TM) Trademark owned by TWENTIETH CENTURY-FOX CORPORATION and
used by U.S. Games Corporation under authorization.

ATARI(R) and Video Computer System(TM) are trademarks of ATARI, INC.

VC1009 (C) 1982 U.S. Games Corporation Printed in Taiwan      H

This document typed and converted to html by gchance@ecst.csuchico.edu. 
