TURMOIL GAME MANUAL
THIS IS A SIX PAGE FOLD OUT TYPE MANUAL

{COVER}

TURMOIL tm
20th
CENTURY
FOX

Games of the Century(tm)
[picture of enhanced game screen]
Game Instructions
FOX VIDEO GAMES

{PAGE 1}

TURMOIL(tm)

TO SET UP:
Set up your video computer system and left joystick controller as 
instructed in you manufacturer owner's manual.  Turn the power OFF and 
insert the Turmoil game cartridge.

TO BEGIN:
Turn the power ON.  Use the Game Select lever to select a play level and 
then press the Game Reset lever or the joystick button to leave the Demo 
Mode.  Now take a deep breath.  You have five seconds to get ready for 
some of the fastest fun you've ever had.

THE OBJECTIVE:
The objective is to zoom up and down the center alley and blast aliens as 
they streak by.  Keep shooting and keep moving to avoid a deadly 
collision with a speeding alien spacecraft.

[Screen shot showing: Enemy Ship 4, Cannon Ball, Tank, Bullet, Arrow, 
Your Ship, and Play level (Demo Mode Only)]

THE CONTROLS:
Tilting your joystick forward and backward moves your ship up and down 
the middle alley in the screen.  Tilting you joystick left and right 
turns your ship left and right to face, or travel, down the lanes.  Hold 
the joystick button down for continous rapid fire.  Oodles of bullets can 
be on the screen at once so you can enjoy destroying more aliens, more 
often, than ever before!  Press the Color/B-W lever to pause Turmoil at 
any time during play.

{PAGE 2}

SCREEN DISPLAY:
In the Turmoil Demo Mode, the current level of play is shown at the 
bottom of the screen.  The high score, since the cartridge was last 
inserted, flashes at the top of the screen in orange.
During the game, your current score is displayed at the top of the 
screen.  The number of ships you have in reserve is shown at the bottom 
of the screen.  Be sure to record your high scores on the back of this 
booklet.

[Screen shot showing: Current Score, Enemy Ship 1, Ghost Ship, Reserve 
Ships, Enemy Ship 2]

SHIPS:
You begin Turmoil with five ships, one in play and four in reserve.  If 
you can blast all of the aliens in a level, you'll receive a bonus ship.  
You can hold up to six reserve ships at one time.  Ships are destroyed by 
accidentally running into passing aliens.

ALIENS:
Turmoil features a variety of speedy aliens which travel back and forth 
across the screen at their own unique paces.  The faster they move, the 
more points they are worth.  All aliens, except for the Prizes, must be 
show while your ship is in the center alley.

{PAGE 3}

ENEMY SHIPS: There are five different Enemy Ships to blast.  A collision 
will be deadly no matter which ship you hit.
ARROWS:  If allowed to cross the screen, Arrows turn into Tanks.
TANKS:  These can only be destroyed from behind.  If shot head on, your 
bullet blasts will merely push the Tanks back a bit.
PRIZES:  When a Prize appears at the edge of the screen, you have just a 
few seconds to race down the lane and touch it. (If you don't get there 
in time, the Prize will turn into a Supersonic Cannon Ball.) After 
touching the Prize, you must quickly return to the center alley to avoid 
getting smashed by the indestructible Ghost Ship.

PLAY LEVELS:
Play levels, one through nine, may be selected at any time during the 
game by pressing the Game Select lever.  You must wipe out wave after 
wave of aliens to advance through the levels during play.  The further 
you progress, the faster and/or more plentiful the aliens become.  The 
alien traffic lanes will occasionally become invisible after level four. 

[Screen shot showing Enemy Ship 3, Enemy Ship 5, Prize, Enemy Ship 5, 
Exploding Alien]

HINTS FROM THE DESIGNER...
Hold the joystick button down and race up and down the screen to wipe out 
the aliens.  Go touch the Prizes as soon as they appear and then race 
back to the middle as fast as you can.  Your ship will stop automatically 
when it reaches the center alley.

{PAGE 4}
FAST BLASTERS

Space for name and level and score of best games.

{PAGE 5}
NOW AVAILABLE FROM FOX VIDEO GAMES:

DEADLY DUCK - A Feisty Fight Between Cranky Crabs And A Fearless Duck!

FAST EDDIE - Fast Action Fun That'll Keep The Whole Family Hopping!

WORM WAR 1 - Save the world from heards of huge and hideous worms!

BEANY BOPPER - Stop the meany beanies before they stop your bopper!

ALIEN - In you living room, everyone can hear you scream!
	A 20th Century Fox Film Corporation Production

COMING ATTRACTIONS:

MASH - More fun than a three day pass!
	A 20th Century Fox Film Corporation Production

9 TO 5 - Take this game and play it!
	A 20th Century Fox Film Corporation Production

PROKY'S - Faster than a greased pig!
	A Mel Simon Production

SIX PACK - Fast lane fun!
	A Lion Share Production

THE FALL GUY - Head over heels in good times!
	A 20th Century Fox Film Corporation Production

FANTASTIC VOYAGE - A heart stopping adventure!
	A 20th Century Fox Film Corporation Production


This manual typed in by Cyborg
e-mail : unna0001@gold.tc.umn.edu


