                                 DATA AGE

                                 WARPLOCK

                        Intergalactic Combat Manual

                  [picture of spaceships above a planet]

Piloting your space craft to the outer reaches of the galaxy, on the
fringes of hyperspace and hypertime, you find you are trapped in a
Space/Time Warp the immobilizes your ship. From nowhere comes a band of
space pirates out to destroy you and your crew. Your Tachyon
Launcher--firing lethal particles that travel faster then light--is still
operational, but even this space-age artillery can't save you unless your
fighting reflexes are in top form.

                          A Data AgeTM Video Game

                            Mission Objectives

 Taking aim at the tormenters swarming outside your space craft's main View
Port, you must destroy the space bandits' ships before they get you. At the
     same time, you must avoid the Photon Bombs with which some of your
                          attackers are equipped.

How to Fight the Battle

  1. Hook up your video game system according to the manufacturer's
     instructions.
  2. With game console power OFF, firmly plug in your WARPLOCKTM game
     cartridge.
  3. Turn game console power ON. If no picture appears, check to make sure
     your game unit is hooked up correctly to your TV, then try steps 1-3
     again.
  4. For the best contrast, turn the "Brightness" control switch on your TV
     to a low setting. (For even more realistic effects, turn down the room
     lights and watch the wake left by the space bandit ships as they blare
     across your screen.)
  5. Plug your paddle controllers into your game console's left receptacle.
     Hold the controller with the red Fire Button to your upper left. For
     two players, use both controllers. (Player 1 uses the left controller,
     and Player 2 uses the right controller.)
  6. Select the game you wish to play (one or two player version) by
     depressing the "Game Select" switch on your game unit console. The
     number of players will appear in the upper right corner of your
     viewing screen.
  7. To begin game play, depress your "Game Reset" switch, then press the
     red Fire Button on your paddle controller. When Player 1's space craft
     is struck, his turn is over, and he must press the "Game Reset" switch
     to begin a new game. If there are two players, Player 2 must press his
     red Fire Button to start his turn. Once Player 2's turn is over, you
     depress either the "Game Reset" switch or Player 1's red Fire Button
     to begin a new game.

Scoring

You will score one point for each enemy ship that you hit. Move your
Tachyon Launcher to the left or the right with your paddle controller,
pressing your Fire Button to launch Tachyon Energy Rods on their deadly
mission. Once your score has reached 99, your score block indicators will
return to zero and begin again at 1 point.

[Diagram showing the layout of the screen, pointing out Player 1's score,
Player 2's score, enemy ships, photon bombs, tachyon energy rods, and the
tachyon launcher.]

The game will escalate in difficulty as the enemy ships increase in speed
and number. Once you have scored sixteen hits (16 points) the enemy craft
will begin dropping Photon Bombs--a potentially explosive situation!

All Data AgeTM Video Games carry a limited one year warranty--our guarantee
that if you find your cartridge to be defective in materials or workmanship
within 12 months of your original purchase, Data Age, Inc., will repair or
replace (at our option) the cartridge free of charge upon prepaid receipt
of the cartridge and proof of the date of purchase. (This warranty is
limited to the electronic circuitry and mechanical parts of the cartridge,
and does not apply to normal wear.)

WARPLOCKTM

Look for other Data AgeTM Video Games wherever video game cartridges are
sold. If you can't find our games in your area, drop us a line and we'll
send you a list of stores near you.
Data Age, Inc., 62 South San Tomas Aquino Road, Campbell, California 95008

                          Game Code Number DA1002

  © Copyright 1982 Data Age, Inc. Printed in U.S.A. All rights reserved.

              MP14502A -- eebmoC .L nimajneB | Benjamin L. Combee (REVERSE)
                    gro.doowhcet@eebmoc | combee@techwood.org (ENGINEERING)
         \eebmoc\ten.kay.www\\:ptth | http://www.yak.net/combee/ (RESERVE)
