		WIZARD OF WOR
Video game cartridge for the Atari Video Computer System and Sears Video Arcade.
		GAME PLAY INSTRUCTIONS
copyright 1982 Gabriel Industries, a division of CBS Inc.
Wizard of Wor copyright 1981 Bally Midway Mfg. Co. All Rights Reserved


SETTING UP YOUR VIDEO CONSOLE

1. Hook up your video game system, following the manufacturer's instructions.

2. With the power OFF, plug in the video game cartridge.

3. Turn power ON.  If no image appears, check the connections of your game
system to the TV, then
    repeat steps 1-3.

4. Plug the Joystick Controllers firmly into the jacks of your video system.
   Use the RIGHT controller jack for one-player games.

5. Set the DIFFICULTY switches to B for beginner level.  Setting the
switches to A will result
   in extra sneaky Worlings.

6. Use the GAME SELECT switch to select either the one-player or two-player
version.  The version
   you select will be indicated by the number of score boards appearing
above the dungeon.

7. To start the game, press GAME RESET.  The beginning of the game is
announced by the playing
   of the National Anthem of Wor, after which you may enter the dungeon by
pushing up on your
   Joystick Controller.

Note: Never remove your video game cartridge from the console unless the
power is turned OFF.


Welcome to the mystical kingdom of Wor!  You have been placed in command of
an elite squadron
of Worriors assigned the task of outwitting the sinister Wizard of Wor!  As
you descend into his
diabolical dungeons, you will encounter deadly Worlings and maybe even the
Wizard himself!
Your only weapons are your trusty laser, your radar scanner, and your
ability and cunning.
You will need them all as you attempt to beat the Wizard and earn the title
of Worlord!
Prepare now, and then let the battle begin!

OBJECT OF THE GAME
The object of WIZARD OF WOR is to accumulate points by destroying the
Worlings you encounter as
you pass through numerous dungeon mazes.  In the two-player version you can
work with or compete
against another Worrior commander.

WORRIORS  &  LASER BLASTERS
You begin each game with a squadron of three Worriors.  Only one Worrior may
enter and move about a dungeon at a time.  Push up on your Joystck and a
Worrior will move into the dungeon from the entrance below.

Use your joystick to maneuver the Worrior through the dungeon maze.  To fire
the laser, press down on the red firing button.  A laser will fire only in
the direction that your Worrior is facing.  You have an unlimited supply of
ammunition.  However, after a Worrior fires a shot, he cannot reshoot until
that bullet makes contact with either a Worling or a wall.

At 10,000 points you will be awarded one extra Worrior.


DUNGEONS & WORLINGS
Each dungeon is filled with different kinds of Worlings.  The Worlings' one
purpose in life is to destroy your Worrior.  They will try to shoot him down
or devour him.  As each dungeon is cleared, a new dungeon takes its place,
filled with faster, nastier and craftier Worlings.  The species of Worlings are:

BURWORS
Six of these blue meanies appear at the beginning of each dungeon.

GARWORS
These yellow beasties are invisible, but will materialize for a few seconds
from time to time.

THORWORS
These red devils are particularly nasty.  They're not invisible most of the
time, but they're extra fast and tricky.

In the first dungeon, Garwors and Thorwors will appear only after all six
Burwors are destroyed.  In following dungeons, Garwors and Thorwors appear
earlier on.  As you advance into more and more dungeons, you may be faced
with any combination of Worlings scampering about the maze at the same time.

WORLUK
Starting in the second dungeon, Worluck - the Wizard's winged beast -
appears after the last Worling is shot.  Worluk will try to devour you
before he escapes from the dungeon.  Shooting Worluk doubles the point
values for all Worlings shot in the next dungeon.

THE WIZARD OF WOR
After Worluk escapes or is shot, the Wizard himself may engage you in
battle.  This is a fight to the finish, with the Wizard teleporting from one
position to another, hurling lightning bolts in your direction.  If you're
sharp enough to stay alive, consider yourself a Worlord!


SPECIAL FEATURES
[Diagram of a dungeon maze, pointing out the Escape Door, a Worling Cluster,
the Radar Scanner, and the opposite Escape Door.]

RADAR SCANNER
The radar scanner located below each dungeon depicts the location and
movement of all beings in that dungeon except for your Worrior.  This holds
true for both visible and invisible Worlings, as well as Worluk and the
Wizard.  The radar scanner is invaluable in keeping track of fast moving
Worlings.

ESCAPE DOORS
There are escape doors located on opposite sides of each dungeon.  Simply
stepping into one will automatically beam your Worrior to the other side.
The doors open and close every three seconds.  Be careful, though.  Worlings
have a habit of using them, too, especially when they're invisible.

WORLING CLUSTERS
Occassionally, two Worlings will travel together as a cluster, giving the
appearance of only one Worling.  They might randomly split up and reunite
throughout a particular dungeon.  When they travel in this manner, a single
shot will destroy both of them.  But don't get too confident.   Depending on
how advanced the dungeon is, a cluster might be replaced by two separately
traveling Garwors or Thorwors.


END OF GAME
The game ends when your last Worrior succumbs to the supreme power of the
Wizard's forces and is destroyed.


TWO-PLAYER VERSION 
Two players may travel through each dungeon at the same time.  Both Joystick
Controllers are used in this version.  The right one controls the Yellow
Worriors and the left one controls the Blue Worriors.  Players may work
together to destroy Worlings or they may fight against each other.  Each
Worrior destroyed by an opposing Worrior is worth 1,000 points to the survivor.


SCORING
Your score is displayed at the top of the screen throughout the battle.

Point values:
Blue Burwors			100 points
Yellow Garwors			200 points
Red Thorwors			500 points
Worluk				1000 points plus double score in the next dungeon
Wizard of Wor			2500 points
Worriors    (Two-player version)	1000 points


STRATEGY HINTS

1. Pick a safe moment and put your Worrior into play as soon as possible.
Otherwise, after 20 seconds he'll be ejected into the dungeon which may
leave him in a bad position.

2. Learn to use your radar scanner and rely on it to locate invisible
Worlings and track their movements.

3. Don't shoot without having a plan to hit something.  Otherwise, you may
not be able to shoot when you have to.


CBS Video Games
Video Game Cartridge Limited Ninety Day Warranty

Gabriel Industries, a division of CBS Inc.  Hagerstown MD 21740

